Change in water use efficiency over time (CWUE): The change in the ratio of the value added to the volume of water use, over time.

Water Use Efficiency (WUE) is defined as the value added of a given major sector divided by the volume of water used. Following the United Nations International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities ISIC 4 coding , sectors are defined as:
agriculture; forestry; fishing (ISIC A), hereinafter “agriculture”;
mining and quarrying; manufacturing; electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply; constructions (ISIC B, C, D and F), hereinafter “MIMEC”;
all the service sectors (ISIC E and ISIC G-T), hereinafter “services”.


Water use: water that is received by an industry or households from another industry or is directly abstracted. [SEEA-Water (ST/ESA/STAT/SER.F/100), par. 2.21]

Water abstraction: water removed from the environment by the economy. [SEEA-Water (ST/ESA/STAT/SER.F/100), par. 2.9]

Water use for irrigation (km³/year) 
Annual quantity of water used for irrigation purposes. It includes water from renewable freshwater resources, as well as water from over-abstraction of renewable groundwater or abstraction of fossil groundwater, direct use of agricultural drainage water, (treated) wastewater, and desalinated water. [AQUASTAT Glossary]

Water use for livestock (watering and cleaning) (km³/year) 
Annual quantity of water used for livestock purposes. It includes water from renewable freshwater resources, as well as water from over-abstraction of renewable groundwater or abstraction of fossil groundwater, direct use of agricultural drainage water, (treated) wastewater, and desalinated water. It includes livestock watering, sanitation, cleaning of stables, etc. If connected to the public water supply network, water used for livestock is included in the services water use. [AQUASTAT Glossary]

Water use for aquaculture (km³/year) 
Annual quantity of water used for aquaculture. It includes water from renewable freshwater resources, as well as water from over-abstraction of renewable groundwater or abstraction of fossil groundwater, direct use of agricultural drainage water, (treated) wastewater, and desalinated water. Aquaculture is the farming of aquatic organisms in inland and coastal areas, involving intervention in the rearing process to enhance production and the individual or corporate ownership of the stock being cultivated. [AQUASTAT Glossary]

Water use for the MIMEC sectors (km³/year)
Annual quantity of water used for the MIMEC sector. It includes water from renewable freshwater resources, as well as over-abstraction of renewable groundwater or abstraction of fossil groundwater and use of desalinated water or direct use of (treated) wastewater. This sector refers to self-supplied industries not connected to the public distribution network. [AQUASTAT Glossary. To be noted that in AQUASTAT, the sectors included in the MIMEC group are referred to as “industry”]

Water use for the services sectors (km³/year)
Annual quantity of water used primarily for the direct use by the population. It includes water from renewable freshwater resources, as well as over-abstraction of renewable groundwater or abstraction of fossil groundwater and the use of desalinated water or direct use of treated wastewater. It is usually computed as the total water used by the public distribution network. It can include that part of the industries, which is connected to the municipal network. [AQUASTAT Glossary. To be noted that in AQUASTAT, the sectors included in “services” are referred to as “municipal”]

Value added (gross)
Value added is the net output of a sector after adding up all outputs and subtracting intermediate inputs. It is calculated without making deductions for depreciation of fabricated assets or depletion and degradation of natural resources. The industrial origin of value added is determined by the International Standard Industrial Classification (ISIC), revision 4. [WB Databank, metadata glossary, modified]

Arable land
Arable land is the land under temporary agricultural crops (multiple-cropped areas are counted only once), temporary meadows for mowing or pasture, land under market and kitchen gardens and land temporarily fallow (less than five years). The abandoned land resulting from shifting cultivation is not included in this category. Data for “Arable land” are not meant to indicate the amount of land that is potentially cultivable. [FAOSTAT]

Permanent crops
Permanent crops are the land cultivated with long-term crops which do not have to be replanted for several years (such as cocoa and coffee); land under trees and shrubs producing flowers, such as roses and jasmine; and nurseries (except those for forest trees, which should be classified under "forest"). Permanent meadows and pastures are excluded from land under permanent crops. [FAOSTAT]

Proportion of irrigated land on the total cultivated land
Total harvested irrigated crop area, expressed in percentage. Area under double irrigated cropping (same area cultivated and irrigated twice a year) is counted twice.

