“extent of wetlands” 
This term can be defined as the surface area of wetlands. It is measured in km2 or hectares. It is expected that the surface reported by countries in 2018 correspond to that of 2017; if not, the reference year should be indicated. 

“change in the extent of wetlands” 
This term refers to the percentage change in area of wetlands from a baseline reference. For reporting such change, the previous extent, if known, and the period over which the change has taken place should be specified. 


In order to provide a precise definition of the indicator, it is crucial to provide a definition of  
“Water related ecosystems”. For this purpose, the definition of the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands is used.

the Ramsar definition of “wetlands”

The Ramsar definition is very broad, reflecting the purpose and global coverage of the Convention:

In accordance with Article 1.1 of the Convention, 
“Wetlands are areas of marsh, fen, peatland or water, whether natural or artificial, permanent or temporary, with water that is static or flowing, fresh, brackish or salt, including areas of marine water the depth of which at low tide does not exceed six metres”.

In addition, in accordance with Article 2.1, Ramsar Sites 
“may incorporate riparian and coastal zones adjacent to the wetlands, and islands or bodies of marine water deeper than six metres at low tide lying within the wetlands”.

-	the Ramsar system of classifying wetland types

Many national definitions and classifications of “wetlands” are in use. They have been developed in response to different national needs and take into account the main biophysical features (generally vegetation, landform and water regime, and sometimes also water chemistry such as salinity) and the variety and size of wetlands in the locality or region being considered.

The Ramsar Classification System for Wetland Types, adopted at COP4 in 1990, and amended at COP6 in 1996 (Resolution VI.5) and at COP7 in 1999 (Resolution VII.11) has value as a basic internationally applicable habitat description for sites designated for the Ramsar List of Wetlands of International Importance.

The System (see Annex 1) describes the types of wetland covered by each of the wetland type codes. Note that the wetland types are grouped in three major categories: marine/coastal, inland, and human-made wetlands. Within a single Ramsar Site or other wetland, there may be wetland types from two or more of these categories, particularly if the wetland is large. 

For the purpose of the Target and Indicator, and based on the National Reports Parties report on the use of the three major categories. Countries also use Ramsar definition that has been internationally agreed under the Convention. The minimum information that should be provided is the total area of wetlands for each of these three categories with an emphasis on inland wetlands or freshwater ecosystems for purpose of indicator 6.6.1 (see table below, the explanations of each wetland type code is in Annex 1).  

Table 1: Tabulations of Wetland Type characteristics, Inland Wetlands:

