This metadata sheet is focused only on the first sub -component of indicator 16.7.1, namely on positions 
in national legislatures held by individuals of each target population (sex, age, persons with disabilities, 
and contextually relevant population groups ).  
The legislative sub -component of indicator 16.7.1 aims to measure how representative of the general 
population are the individuals occupying key decision -making positions in national legislatures. More 
specifically, this indicator measures the proporti onal representation of various demographic groups 
(women, age groups) in the national population amongst individuals occupying the following positions in 
national legislatures: (1) Members, (2) Speakers and (3) Chairs of permanent committees in charge of t he 
following portfolios: Foreign Affairs, Defence, Finance, Human Rights and Gender Equality. Furthermore, 
it looks at the electoral and constitutional provisions adopted by countries to secure representation in 
national legislatures of persons with disabi lities and contextually relevant population groups.  
  
The indicator is based on the following key concepts and terms:    
• National legislature: A legislature (alternatively called ‘assembly’ or ‘parliament’) is the multi -
member branch of government that considers public issues, makes laws and oversees the 
executive.   
o Unicameral / bicameral parliaments:  A legislature may consist of a single chambe r 
(unicameral parliament) or two chambers (bicameral parliament). The organization of a 
country’s legislature is prescribed by its constitution. Around the world, about 59% of all 
countries have unicameral legislatures, while the remaining 41% are bicamera l1. To 
 
1 Source: Structure of Parliaments, IPU New Parline database on national parliaments 
<https://data.ipu.org/compare?field=country%3A%3Afield_structure_of_parliament#pie>  Last updated:  2023-12-15 
allow for a comprehensive analysis, this indicator will consider both chambers in 
bicameral parliaments.  
• Member of Parliament (MP): A person who is formally an elected or appointed member of a 
national legislature. This metadata considers all membe rs of lower and upper chamber 
regardless of the selection modality (direct election, indirect election and appointment).  
• Speaker: A Speaker (alternatively called ‘president’ or ‘chairperson’ of the legislature) is the 
presiding officer of the legislature.  
• Permanent committee (alternatively called ‘standing committee’): established for the full 
duration of the legislature and generally aligned with the specific policy areas of key government 
departments. For the purpose of SDG indicator 16.7.1(a), the perman ent committees in charge 
of five portfolios are being considered: Foreign Affairs, Defence, Finance, Human Rights and 
Gender Equality.  
• Permanent Committee Chair:  A person designated to preside over the work of a permanent 
committee, selected through nomina tion by political parties, election by MPs, appointment by 
the Speaker, or other means.  
• Disability: long -term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairments which in interaction 
with various barriers may hinder the full and effective participation of disabled persons in society 
on an equal basis with others.2 
• Population group: The population of a country is a mosaic of different population groups that can 
be identified according to racial or ethnic, language, migration status, religious affiliation, sexual 
orientation, as well as disability status (UNECE). The indicator adopts a broad definition of 
population groups, not limited to minorities3 and indigenous peoples4, in order to  capture all 
nationally relevant groups tracked by a given parliament, which depends on the constitutional 
and electoral measures in place to guarantee the representation of certain groups. Such 
measures sometimes extend to groups other than ‘minorities’, such as, for instance, 
occupational groups.5 
 
