The percent of firms experiencing at least one bribe payment reque st across 6 public transactions dealing 
with utilities access, permits, licenses, and taxes.   
 
In every Enterprise Survey ( www.enterprisesurveys.org ), there are standard question s which ask the 
survey respondent if they were expected to give a gift or informal payment during a transaction with a 
public official. There are six, separate transactions which make up this indicator, they include an 
application for an electrical connecti on, an application for a water connection, an application for a 
construction -related permit, an application for an import license, an application for an operating license, 
and during an inspection/meeting with tax officials. In all of these transactions, if the respondent Last updated: 20 23-03-31 
   
 indicates ‘yes’ they had the transaction (e.g. they applied for an import license) , then there is a follow -up 
question which asks if the respondent was expected to provide a gift or an informal payment during this 
transaction (an applicati on or meeting) . The response options include “yes”, “no”, “don’t know”,and 
“refuse”.  Note that refusals are accepted and recorded but for the purposes of indicator construction, 
refusals are considered as a ‘yes’.  The indicator  16.5.2  is measuring whether the respondent indicated 
‘yes’ to a bribe payment for any of these six transactions.  
 
Enterprise Surveys are firm -level surveys conducted in World Bank client countries. The survey focuses on 
various aspects of the business environment as well as firm’s ou tcome measures such as annual sales, 
productivity, etc. The surveys are conducted via face -to-face interviews with the top manager or business 
owner. For each country, the survey is conducted approximately every 4 -5 years.  
 
  
The respondents to the Enterprise Survey are firms - either manufacturing or services establishments. 
These are registered (formal) firms with 5+ employees. The firms are either fully or partially private 
(100% state -owned firms are ineligible for the Enter prise Survey). More information on the survey 
methodology can be found on the Methodology page of the website: 
www.enterprisesurveys.org/methodology  
 
A gift or an informal payment is considered a  ‘bribe’.  
 
