Last updated: 2024 -09-27 
   
   
 
This indicator Existence of independent national human rights institutions in compliance with the Paris 
Principles measures the compliance of existing national human rights institutions with the Principles 
relating to the Status of National Institutions (The Paris Principles), which were adopted by the General 
Assembly (resolution 48/134) based on the rules of procedure of the Global Alliance of National Human 
Rights Institutions (GANHRI ), formerly the International Coordinating Committee of National Institutions 
for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights (or ICC).  
 
  
 
A National Human Rights Institution (NHRI) is an independent administrative body set up by a State to 
promot e and protect human rights. NHRIs are State bodies with a constitutional and/or legislative 
mandate to protect and promote human rights. They are part of the State apparatus and are funded by 
the State. However, they operate and function independently from  government. While their specific 
mandate may vary, the general role of NHRIs is to address discrimination in all its forms, as well as to 
promote the protection of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. Core functions of NHRIs 
include com plaint handling, human rights education and making recommendations on law reform. 
Effective NHRIs are an important link between government and civil society, in so far as they help bridge 
the 'protection gap' between the rights of individuals and the respo nsibilities of the State. Six models of 
NHRIs exist across all regions of the world today, namely: Human rights commissions, Human rights 
ombudsman institutions, Hybrid institutions, Consultative and advisory bodies, Institutes and centers and 
multiple ins titutions.  
 
To be effective in their work to promote and protect human rights, national human rights institutions 
must be credible and independent.  The Paris Principles set out internationally agreed minimum standards 
that NHRIs must meet to be considered credible , requiring  NHRIs to be independent in law, membership, 
operations, policy and control of resources.  
 
The Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions (GANHRI) , through the Sub -Committee on 
Accreditation (SCA), is responsible f or reviewing and accrediting NHRIs in compliance with the Paris 
Principles : NHRIs that are assessed as complying with the Paris Principles are accredited with ‘A status’, 
while those that partially comply are accredited with ‘B status’.  
 
‘A status’ NHRIs have independent participation rights at the UN Human Rights Council, its subsidiary 
bodies and some General Assembly bodies and mechanisms. They are eligible for full membership of 
GANHRI, including the right to vote and hold governance positions.  NHRIs accredited with ‘B status’ 
participate in GANHRI meetings but are unable to vote or hold governance positions.  
 
Accreditation by the GANHRI entails a determination whether the NHRI is compliant, both in law and 
practice, with the Paris principles, the princi pal source of the normative standards for NHRIs, as well as 
with the General Observations developed by the SCA. Other international standards may also be taken 
into account by the SCA, including the provisions related to the establishment of national mecha nisms in 
the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading 
Treatment or Punishment as well as in the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities. Likewise, the SCA looks at any NHRI -relate d recommendation from the international human 
rights mechanisms, notably, the Treaty Bodies, Universal Periodic Review (UPR) and special procedures. Last updated: 2024 -09-27 
   
 The process also looks into the effectiveness and level of engagement with international human rights 
syste ms. 
 
The Principles relating to the Status of National Institutions (The Paris Principles) adopted by General 
Assembly, Resolution 48/134 of 20 December 1993 provide the international benchmarks against which 
NHRIs can be accredited by the GANHRI.  
 
