Primary government expenditures as a proportion of original approved budget  
 
This indicator measures the extent to which aggregate budget expenditure outturn reflects the amount 
originally approved, as defined in government budget documentation and fiscal reports. The coverage is 
budgetary central government (BCG) and the time peri od covers  every f iscal year  for the count ries. . 
 
  
Aggregate expenditure includes actual expenditures incorporating those incurred as a result of  unplanned 
or exceptional events —for example, armed conflicts or natural disasters. Expenditures financed by windfall 
revenues, including privatization, should be included and noted in the supporting fiscal tables and 
narrative. Expenditures financed exter nally by loans or grants should be included, if covered by the budget, Last updated: 2024 -07-29 
   
 along with contingency vote(s) and interest on debt. Expenditure assigned to suspense accounts is not 
included in the aggregate. However, if amounts are held in suspense accounts at the  end of any year that 
could affect the scores if included in the calculations, they can be included. In such cases the reason(s) for 
inclusion must be clearly stated.  
 
Actual expenditure outturns can deviate from the originally approved budget for reasons unrelated to the 
accuracy of forecasts —for example, as a result of a major macroeconomic shock. The calibration of this 
indicator accommodates one unusual or “outlier” year and focuses on deviations from the forecast which 
occur in two of the three years c overed by the assessment.  
 
Very detailed resources are available at  www.pefa.org . The document directly related to the SDG Indicator 
16.6.1 is the “PEFA Framework for assessing public financial management” : 
https://www.pefa.org/resources/pefa -2016 -framework ). There are seven Pillars in this document 
containing a total of 31 indicators. The pillar containing the indicator PI -1 corresponding  to SDG 16.6.1  is 
part of Pillar I which measures Budget reliability.   
The SDG 16.6.1 Indicator follows the defini tion and concept for PEFA PI -1 Indicator  in PEFA Framework 
with the only difference that the budget deviations for PI -1 are computed based on three years country 
performance, while the SDG 16.6.1 indicator is based on the annual budgets deviations.  
 
