Definitions:  
 
1 SDG 5.5.1 – Proportion of seats held by women in national parliaments and local governments; and SDG 5.5.2  – 
Proportion of women in managerial positions . 
2 SDG 10.2.1 – Proportion of people living below 50 per cent of median income, by age, sex and persons with disabi lities . Last updated: 2022-03-31 
2 This metadata is focused only on the public service sub -component of indicator 16.7.1. It measures 
representation in the public service with respect to the sex, age, disability and population group status of 
public servants, and assesses how these correspo nd to the proportion of these groups in society as a 
whole.  
More specifically, this indicator measures the proportional representation of various demographic groups 
(women, youth, persons with disability, and nationally relevant population groups) across various 
occupational categories as well as across two administrative levels (national and sub -national).  
 
Concepts : 
This indicator builds on various concepts and terms from international statistical standards and 
classifications as well as normative frameworks:  
- Institutional units covered:  The concepts of ‘General Government Sector’ and ‘General 
Government  Employment’3, as found in the 2008 System of National Accounts (SNA) but with 
some minor modifications4, define the boundaries of the institutional units covered under this 
indicator.  
• The following institutional units should be included: All units of central and “state” (or 
equivalent sub -central level) government, i.e. all ministries, agencies, department s and 
non-profit institutions that are controlled by public authorities.  
• The following institutional units should be excluded: local government units5, the military, 
social security funds, public corporations and quasi -corporations that are owned and 
cont rolled by government units.  
 
- Administrative levels: As outlined above, this indicator covers employment at both central and 
sub-central levels of government (but excludes local government). Employment data will therefore 
be collected at two levels:  
• Employment in national/central government; and  
• Employment in ‘state government units’, described in the 2008 SNA as “institutional units 
whose fiscal, legislative and executive authority extends only over the individual ‘states’ 
into which the country as a whole may be divided”.6  
 
- Occupational categories in the public service: Target 16.7 calls for responsive, inclusive, 
participatory and representative decision -making at all levels.  As such, reporting on indicator 
 
3 It is important to note that data on general government employment is different from data on ‘public sector 
employment’, calculated under the International Labour Organisation  (ILO) framework, which includes employment in 
public corporations (here to be excluded)  
4 The following types of government employees are included in the SNA definition of general government, but excluded for 
the purposes of this indicator: local governme nt units (see also next footnote for further detail), social security funds, 
military.  
5 Employment data from local government units should not be collected for reporting on indicator 16.7.1.  Even though 
‘local government units’, defined in the 2008 SNA a s “institutional units whose fiscal, legislative and executive authority 
extends over the smallest geographical areas distinguished for administrative and political purposes”, are, in principle, part 
of the general government sector, this metadata does not require reporting on government employment at this 
administrative level. In order for local government units to be treated as institutional units, the 2008 SNA specifies that 
they “must be entitled to own assets, raise funds and incur liabilities by  borro wing on their own account; similarly, they 
must have some discretion over how such funds are spent. They should also be able to appoint their own officers, 
independently of external administrative control.” Since this is not the case in all countries, glob al reporting on this 
indicator excludes this administrative level.   
6 Such ‘states’ may be described by different terms in different countries. In some countries, especially small countries, 
individual states and state governments may not exist. However, in large countries, especially those that have federal 
constitutions, considerable powers and responsibilities may be assigned to state governments.”  Last updated: 2022-03-31 
3 16.7.1(b) needs to be done separately for various levels of decision -making. Since there is no 
international definition of ‘positions’ in the public service and therefore most countries have their 
own national classification for public service positions, a harmonized set of occupational 
categories in the public service is needed to ensure the comparability of data reported for this 
indicator.    
• The International Standard Classification of Occupations (ISCO -08) was used to identify 
four ‘core’ occupational categories in the public service7 found to be relatively typical in 
every government,  namely Managers (ISCO -08 Major Group 1), Professionals (ISCO -08 
Major Group 2), Technicians and Associate Professionals (ISCO -08 Major Group 3) and 
Clerical Support Work ers (ISCO -08 Major Group 4) .  
• Moreover, the rationale of this indicator places a particular focus on ‘front -line service 
workers’ which frequently interact directly with the public,8 such as police personnel, 
education personnel, health personnel and fron t-desk administrative personnel. While 
this list of front -line public service jobs is not exhaustive, these four categories were 
selected given the substantial portion of public service jobs they account for, and the 
frequent direct interaction these publi c servants have with the public.  
 
- Appointed/elected positions:  In order to  ensure consistent reporting, it is important to distinguish 
positions that are appointed (or elected) by the government or the head of government, and 
career public servant positions obtained on the basis of merit and seniority. This indicator only 
consid ers the latter – i.e. positions held by career public servants, obtained on the basis of merit 
and seniority. NB: This consideration is most likely to affect positions in the ‘managers’ 
occupational category. 9  
 
- Disability status:  To disaggregate public servant data by disability status, it is recommended that 
countries use the  Short Set of  Questions on  Disability  elaborated by the Washington Group .10   
 
7 ISCO -08 is a tool for organizing jobs into a clearly defined set of groups according to the tasks and du ties undertaken in 
the job. It is the basis for many national occupation classifications and the standard for labour information worldwide. A 
job is defined in ISCO -08 as “a set of tasks and duties performed, or meant to be performed, by one person, includ ing for 
an employer or in self -employment”. Occupation refers to the kind of work performed in a job. More specifically, the 
concept of occupation is defined in ISCO -08 as a “set of jobs whose main tasks and duties are characterized by a high 
degree of sim ilarity”.   
8 Diverse representation among front -line service workers is important as it has been found to help raise the quality of 
public services by improving the understanding of community needs and ameliorating social dialogue and communication 
with t he wider population . (OECD (2009), Fostering diversity in the Public Service, Public Governance and Territorial 
Directorate – Network on Public Employment and Management)  
9 This is an important distinction with significant implications for reporting. For instance, appointing more women (or more 
individuals from a certain disadvantaged population group) to leadership positions that change with elections is 
fundamentally different (and can be done much more quickly) from promoting women (or a disadvantaged population 
group) through the ranks to top positions in the public service. As such, if no distinction was made between appointed 
positions and career public servants, countries deciding to include only on appointed positions may appear more 
representative than countries reporting on career public servants.  
10 UNDP’s Disability Based Inclusio n Report  details a pilot study in partnership with the South African statistical office on an 
approach for using the Washington Group Short Set on Functioning to maintain data on the disability status of personnel 
within the public service.  Last updated: 2022-03-31 
4 