)  
  
This indicator measures levels of public satisfaction with people’s last experience with public services, in 
the three service areas of healthcare, education and government services (i.e. services to obtain 
government -issued identification documents and se rvices for the civil registration of life events such as 
births, marriages and deaths)3. This is a survey -based indicator which emphasizes citizens’ experiences  over 
general perceptions, with an eye on measuring the availability and quality of services as they were actually 
delivered to survey respondents .  
 
3 The formulation ‘government services’ (also commonly called ‘admin istrative services’) is used in this metadata to mirror 
this more colloquial language used in the survey questionnaire.  Last updated:  2023 -03-31 
Respondents are asked to reflect on their last experience with each service, and to provide a rating on five 
‘attributes’, or service -specific standards,  of healthcare, education and government services  (such as 
access, affordability, quality of facilities, etc.). A final question asks respondents for their overall satisfaction 
level with each service.  
It is recommended that survey results, at a minimum, be disaggregated by sex, income and place of 
residence (urban/rural, administrative regions). To the extent possible, all efforts should be made to also 
disaggregate results by disability status and by ‘nationally relevant population groups’.  
A detailed questionnaire and implementation manual to produce the indicator is defined in the SDG 16 
Survey Initiative4: The questions for 16.6.2 on healthcare, education and government  services can be 
inserted into existing surveys, u sing these surveys’ additional batteries on demographics for subsequent 
disaggregation of results. This modular ‘add -on’ technique also allows for the cross -tabulation of 
satisfaction levels with other socioeconomic variables found in the larger survey, su ch as the health 
conditions of the respondent. This enables a more comprehensive analysis of disparities in the provision of 
services, and helps to pinpoint specific factors that influence satisfaction levels.   
  
• Public services:  As stated by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, “States are 
responsible for delivering a variety of services to their populations, including education, health and 
social welfare services. The provision of these services is essential to the protectio n of human rights 
such as the right to housing, health, education and food. The role of the public sector as service 
provider or regulator of the private provision of services is crucial for the realization of all human rights, 
particularly social and econ omic rights.”5  
 
While several definitions of ‘public services’ exist, they tend to have in common a focus on ‘common 
interest' and on ‘government responsibility’. For instance, the European Commission defines such 
services as “Services that public author ities of the Member States clarify as being of general interest 
and, therefore, subject to specific public service obligations.”6 Similarly, the African Charter on Values 
and Principles of Public Service and Administration (African Union, 2011) defines a public service as 
“Any service or public -interest activity that is under the authority of the government administration”.  
 
• Public services ‘of general interest’: The methodology for SDG 16.6.2 carefully defines the scope of 
healthcare and education services to ensure that the focus is placed on services that are truly of general 
interest . In the case of healthcare services, for instance, preventive and primary healthcare services 
can be said to be truly ‘of general interest’: these services are relevant to everyone and they are most 
commonly found in both urban and rural areas. This might  not be the case for hospitals that provide 
tertiary care, and as such hospital and specialist care is excluded from the questions on healthcare 
services. Likewise, in the case of education services, primary and lower secondary education services 
 
4 The SDG 16 Survey Initiative jointly developed by UNDP, UNODC and OHCHR provides a high quality, well 
tested tool that countries can use to measure progress on many of the survey -based indicators under SDG16.  
It can support data production on peace, justice and inclusion (SDG 16) . The methodology was welcomed by 
the 53rd United Nations Statistical Commission ( E/2022/24 -E/CN.3/2022/41 ) 
5 Good Governance Practices for the Protection of Human Rights  (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.07.XIV.10), p. 38 – 
cited in Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the role of the public service as an essential 
component  of good governance in the promotion and protection of human rights, Human Rights Council, 25th Session, 23 
December 2013, A/HRC/25/27   
6 European Commission’s 2011 Communication regarding ‘ A Quality Framework for Services of General Interest in Europe’, 
p. 3  Last updated:  2023 -03-31 
can be sa id to be truly ‘of general interest’, given their universality. University education, however, is 
excluded from the questions on education services.  
 
• ‘Last experience’ of public services in the past 12 months:  Indicator 16.6.2 focuses on respondents’ 
‘last experience of public services’, and specifies a reference period of “the past 12 months” to avoid 
telescoping effects and to minimize memory bias effects. This means that only respondents who will 
have used healthcare, education and government services i n the past 12 months will proceed to 
answer the survey questions.  
 
• Service -specific standards – or ‘attributes’: The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
explains that “A human rights -based approach to public services is integral to the desig n, delivery, 
implementation and monitoring of all public service provision. Firstly, the normative human rights 
framework provides an important legal yardstick for measuring how well public service is designed and 
delivered and whether the benefits reach r ights -holders”7. For instance, the Committee on Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights specifies that “The availability, accessibility, acceptability and quality of 
health -related services should be facilitated and controlled by States. This duty extends to  a variety of 
health -related services ranging from controlling the spread of infectious diseases to ensuring maternal 
health and adequate facilities for children.”8 Similarly, with respect to education services, the same 
Committee underlines that “States should adopt a human rights approach to ensure that [education 
services are] of an adequate standard and do not exclude any child on the basis of race, religion, 
geographical location or any other defining characteristic.”9   
 
• Healthcare services: The questions on healthcare services focus on respondents’ experiences (or that 
of a child in their household who needed treatment and was accompanied by the respondent) wi th 
primary healthcare services (over the past 12 months) – that is, basic health care services provided by 
a government/public health clinic, or covered by a public health system. It can include health care 
services provided by private institutions, as lon g as such services are provided at reduced (or no) cost 
to beneficiaries, under a public health system. Respondents are specifically asked not to include in their 
answers any experience they might have had with hospital or specialist medical care services (for 
example, if they had a surgery), or with dental care and teeth exams (because in many countries, dental  
care is not covered by publicly funded healthcare systems). Attributes -based questions on healthcare 
services focus on 1) Accessibility (related to  geographic proximity, delay in getting appointment, 
waiting time to see doctor on day of appointment); 2) Affordability; 3) Quality of facilities; 4) Equal 
treatment for everyone; and 5) Courtesy and treatment (attitude of healthcare staff).  
 
• Education se rvices: The questions on education services focuses on respondents’ experience with the 
public school system  over the past 12 months, that is, if there are children in their household whose 
age falls within the age range spanning primary and secondary educ ation in the country. Public schools 
are defined as “those for which no private tuition fees or major payments must be paid by the parent 
or guardian of the child who is attending the school; they are state -funded schools.” Respondents are 
asked to respond  separately for primary and secondary schools if children in their household attend 
school at different levels. Attributes -based questions on education services focus on 1) Accessibility 
(with a focus on geographic proximity); 2) Affordability; 3) Quality of facilities; 4) Equal treatment for 
everyone; and 5) Effective delivery of service (Quality of teaching).  
 
• Government services: The battery on government services focuses exclusively on two types of 
government services: 1) Services to obtain government -issued identification documents (such as 
 
7 Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the role of the public service as an essential 
component of good governance in the promotion and protection of human  rights, Human Rights Council, 25th Session, 23 
December 2013, A/HRC/25/27   
8 Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, General Comment No. 14 (2000) on the right to the highest 
attainable standard of health, para. 4.    
9 Committee on Economic, S ocial and Cultural Rights, general comment No. 13 (1999) on the right to education, para. 1.   Last updated:  2023 -03-31 
national identity cards, passports, driver’s licenses and voter’s cards) and 2) services for the civil 
registration of life events su ch as births, marriages and deaths. This particular focus on these two types 
of services arises from the high frequency of use of these services. Attributes -based questions on 
government services focus on 1) Accessibility; 2) Affordability; 3) Equal treatm ent for everyone; 4) 
Effective delivery of service (delivery process is simple and easy to understand); and 5) Timeliness.  
 
Selection of relevant disaggregation dimensions   
• Relevant international legal frameworks: Indicator 16.6.2 aims to provide a better understanding 
of how access to services and the quality of services differ across localities and across various 
demographic groups. This aim is supported by international human rights law:   
 
- Article  25 (c) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights provides for the 
right to equal access  to public service. In its report on the role of the public services as an 
essential component in the promotion and protection of human rights,  the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights reminds that “States must bear in mind that there 
are demographic groups in every society that may be disadvantaged in their access to 
public services, namely women, children, migrants, persons with di sabilities, indigenous 
persons and older persons. States need to ensure that the human rights of these groups 
are not undermined and that they receive adequate public services.”10 The High 
Commissioner also calls attention to the fact that “ Poverty acts as  a major barrier in 
relation to public services.”    
 
- The obligations to ensure equality and non -discrimination are recognized in article  2 of 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and are encountered in many United Nations 
human rights instruments, suc h as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 
(arts.  2 and  26), the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights  (art.  2 
(2)), the Convention on the Rights of the Child (art.  2), the International Convention on 
the Protect ion of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families (art.  7) 
and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (art.  5). In  terms of public 
services, this means that States have an immediate obligation to ensure that delibera te, 
targeted measures are put into place to secure substantive equality and that all individuals 
have an equal opportunity to enjoy their right to access public services.  
 
• Empirical analysis: Statistical analysis of available datasets on citizen satisfacti on with healthcare 
and education services11 shows that the demographic variables that are most strongly correlated 
with satisfaction with healthcare and education services are (1) income (by far the strongest 
determinant of satisfaction levels), (2) sex, a nd (3) place of residence (rural/urban). There is no 
statistically significant association between the age of respondents and satisfaction levels.  
 
