Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
The indicator  measures the total value of inward and outward illicit financial flows (IFFs) in current United 
States dollars. IFFs are defined as “financial flows that are illicit in origin, transfer or use, that reflect an 
exchange of value and that cross country bord ers”.  
 
  
IFFs have the following features:  
● Illicit in origin, transfer or use . A flow of value is considered illicit if it is illicitly generated (e.g. , 
originates from criminal activities or tax evasion), illicitly transferred (e.g. , violating cu rrency 
controls) or illicitly used (e.g. , for financing terrorism). The flow can be legally generated , 
transferred or used, but it must be illicit in at least one of these aspects. Some flows that are not 
strictly illegal may fall within the definition of IFFs  for statistical purposes , for example,  cross -
border aggressive tax avoidance which erodes the ta x base of a country where that income was 
generated.  
● Exchange of value , rather than purely financial transfers. Exchange of value includes exchange of 
goods and services, and financial and non -financial assets. For instance, illicit cross -border 
bartering , meaning the illicit exchange of goods and services for other goods and services, is a 
common practice in illegal markets and it is considered as IFF.  
● IFFs measure  a flow of value over a given time  - as opposed to a stock measure, which would be 
the accum ulation of value.  
● Flows that cross a border .1 This includes assets that cross borders and assets where the ownership 
changes from a resident of a country to a non -resident, even if the assets remain in the same 
jurisdiction.  
 
There are four main types of activities that can generate IFFs:  
● Illicit tax and commercial practices : These include illicit practices by legal entities as well as 
arrangements  and individuals with the objective of concealing revenues and reducing tax 
burden through evading controls and regulations. This category can be  divided into two 
components:  
o IFFs from illegal commercial activities and tax evasion . These include illegal practices 
such as tariff, duty and revenue offences, tax evasion, competition offences and 
market manipulation amongst others, as included in the International Classification 
of Crime for Statistical Purposes ( ICCS )2. Most of these activities are non -observed, 
hidden or part of the shadow, underground or informal economy that may generate 
IFFs.  
o IFFs from aggressive tax avoidance . Illicit flows can also be generated from legal 
economic activities through aggressive tax avoidance. This can take place through the 
manipulation of transfer pricing, strategic location of debt and intellectual property, 
tax treaty shopping and the use o f hybrid instruments and entities. These flows need 
 
1 The proposed bottom -up measurement approach described below considers domestic IFFs as part of the illegal economy 
too. These flows would not fall under the definition of IFFs for SDG 16.4.1, but are of high relevance to understanding 
organised cross -bord er illicit flows.  
2 See section 2.c  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
to be carefully considered, as they generally arise from legal business transactions and 
only the illicit part of the cross -border flows belongs within the scope of IFFs.  
● IFFs from illegal markets : These include trade in illicit goods and services when the corresponding 
financial flows cross borders. The focus is on criminal activities where income is generated through 
exchange (trade) of illegal goods or services. Such processes often involve a degree of criminal 
organisation aimed at creating profit. They include any type of trafficking in goods, such as drugs 
and firearms, or services, such as smuggling of migrants. IFFs emerge from transnational trade in 
illicit goods and services, as well as from cross -border flows from managing the illicit income from 
such activities.  
● IFFs from corruption : The United Nations Convention against Corruption (UNCAC) defines acts 
considered as corruption, and they are consistently defined in the ICCS, such as bribery, 
embezzlement, abuse of functions, trading in influence, illicit enrichment and other acts of 
corruption in the scope. When these acts – directly or indirectly - generate cross -border flows, 
they generate IFFs.  
● Exploitation -type activities, and financing of crime and terrorism : Exploitation -type activities are 
non-productive activities that entail a forced, involuntary and illicit transfer of economic resources 
between two actors. Terrorism financing and financing of crime are illicit, voluntary transfers of 
funds between two actors. Examples of exploitation -type activities are sexual exploitation, theft, 
extortion, illicit enrichment, and kidnapping. When the related financial flows cross country 
borders, they constitute IFFs.  
 
Other relevant concepts include:  
• Inward IFFs : IFFs entering a country.  
• Outward IFFs : IFFs leaving a country.  
• Illicit income  generation : This refers to the set of transactions that either directly generate 
illicit income for an actor during a productive or non -productive illicit activity, or that are 
performed in the context of the production of illicit goods and services. A tr ansaction 
constitutes an IFF when it crosses country borders.  
• Illicit income management : These transactions use illicit income to invest in (legal or illegal) 
financial and non -financial assets or to consume (legal or illegal) goods and services. A 
transac tion constitutes an IFFs when it crosses country borders.  
• Illegal markets  comprise all transactions related to the production and the trade with a certain 
illicit good or service. Regardless of the illicit nature, these market activities are considered as 
being economically productive, because value added is generated at each transaction. The 
value added describes the net increase in value (price times quantity) of the product at each 
transaction.  
 
