The total number of persons who have been victim of (a) physical, (b) psychological and (c) sexual 
violence in the previous 12 months,  as a share of the total population.  
 
Three separate indicators should be computed, one for each type of violence.  
 
  
This indicator measures the prevalence of victimization from (a) physical, (b) psychological  and (c) sexual 
violence  respectively . 
 
(a) Physical violence:  This concept largely corresponds to  physical assault  and robbery.  
 
Assault is  defined in the International Classification of Crime for Statistical Purposes (ICCS)  as: the 
intentional or reckless application of physical force inflicted upon the body of a person.1 This includes the 
intentional or reckless application of serious phys ical force resulting in serious bodily injury, and the 
intentional or reckless application of minor physical force resulting in no injury or minor bodily injury . 
According to the ICCS, these are defined as:  
 
• Serious bodily injury, at minimum, includes gunshot or bullet wounds; knife or stab wounds; 
severed limbs; broken bones or teeth knocked out; internal injuries; being knocked unconscious; 
and other severe or critical injuries.  
 
• Serious physical force, at minimum, includes being shot; stabbe d or cut; hit by an object; hit by a 
thrown object; poisoning and other applications of force with the potential to cause serious 
bodily injury.  
 
• Minor bodily injury, at minimum, includes bruises, cuts, scratches, chipped teeth, swelling, black 
eye and oth er minor injuries.  
 
• Minor physical force, at minimum, includes hitting, slapping, pushing, tripping, knocking down 
and other applications of force with the potential to cause minor bodily injury.  
 
 
1 See ICCS 02011 Assault.  Last updated: 2024 -03-28 
   
 In addition to acts of assault, acts amounting to serious physical threats are also included in the definition 
of physical violence. As defined in the ICCS, serious physical threats refer to threat s with the intention to 
cause death or serious bodily injury .2 
 
Furthermore, physical violence also covers  acts of robber y, defined in the ICCS as unlawfully taking or 
obtaining property with the use of force or threat of force against a person with intent to permanently or 
temporarily withhold it from a person or organization.3 
 
Physical violence only counts as such when it is non -consensual, for example, acts of physical violence 
(punching, kicking, etc.) experienced while exercising a regulated combat sport or combat training will 
not count towards victimization prevalence.  
 
In the absence of suitable data on physical violence, it is possible to use data on physical assault  or 
robbery , given they are both component of physical violence .  
 
Psychological violence:  There is no consensus at the international level o n the precise definition of 
psychological violence . Psychological violence may be defined as any intentional and reckless act that 
causes psychological distress  to an individual. Psychological violence can  take the form of, for example, 
coercion, defamation, humiliation, intimidation, credible threats of violence, excessive verbal attacks or 
bullying, or harassment. Often, psychological violence is a pattern of behaviours, but it may be a distinct 
incident as well. Psychological violence is often experienced in domestic contexts.  The internationally 
standardized and tested SDG 16 survey questionnaire  provides a methodology and a core set of 
questions to measure psychological violence  (see Section 4.c. Method of computation) .  
 
Sexual violence : As defined in the International Classification of Crime for Statistical Purposes (ICCS), 
sexual violence includes unwanted sexual act s or attempt s to obtain a sexual act  without valid consent or 
with consent as a result of intimidation, force, fraud, coercion, threat, deception, use of drugs or alcohol, 
or abuse of power or of a position of vulnerability. This includes rape and other forms of sexual assault , 
excluding non-physical sexual assault (e.g. sexual harassment) . Sexual violence may be perpetrated by 
casual partners, by acquaintances or by strangers, but such acts also occur in established or even in 
formalized intimate partnerships, including in marriages. Sexual violence most often, but not ex clusively, 
targets women. Sexual violence may also take place in same -sex contexts.  
 
More details on the set of behaviours to be used to measure physical, psychological and sexual violence 
are provided in Section 4.c. Method of computation.  
 
