Definitions:  
Small -scale industrial enterprises, in the SDG framework also called “small -scale industries”, defined here 
for the purpose of statistical data collection and compilation refer to statistical units, generally enterprises, 
engaged in production of goods and services for market below a designated size class.  
 
 
1 In March 2023, the series description was updated from “Proportion of small -scale industries in total industry 
value added” to “Proportion of small -scale manufacturing industries in total manufacturing value added” for 
clarity; content in the series is the same . Last updated: 2023 -12-15 
Proportion of “small -scale industries” in total industry value added repre sents an indicator calculating the 
share of manufacturing value added of small -scale manufacturing enterprises in the total manufacturing 
value added.  
 
  
International recommendations for industrial statistics 2008 (IRIS 2008) (United Nations, 2011 ) define an 
enterprise  as the smallest legal unit that constitutes an organizational unit producing goods or services . 
The enterprise is the basic statistical unit at which all information relating to its production activities and 
transactions, including f inancial and balance -sheet accounts, are maintained. It is also used for institutional 
sector classification in the 2008 System of National Accounts.  
 
An establishment  is defined as an enterprise or part of an enterprise that is situated in a single location 
and in which only a single productive activity is carried out or in which the principal productive activity 
accounts for most of the value added. An establishment c an be defined ideally as an economic unit that 
engages, under single ownership or control, that is, under a single legal entity, in one, or predominantly 
one, kind of economic activity at a single physical location. Mines, factories and workshops are examp les. 
This ideal concept of an establishment is applicable to many of the situations encountered in industrial 
inquiries, particularly in manufacturing.  
 
Although the definition of an establishment allows for the possibility that there may be one or more 
secondary activities carried out in it, their magnitude should be small compared with that of the principal 
activity. If a secondary activity within an establishment is as important, or nearly as important, as the 
principal activity, then the unit is more li ke a local unit. It should be subdivided so that the secondary 
activity is treated as taking place within an establishment separate from the establishment in which the 
principal activity takes place.  
 
In the case of most small -sized businesses , the enterpr ise and the establishment will be identical. Some 
enterprises are large and complex with different kinds of economic activities undertaken at different 
locations. Such enterprises should be broken down into one or more establishments, provided that smaller  
and more homogeneous production units can be identified for which production data may be meaningfully 
compiled.  
 
As introduced in IRIS 2008 (United Nations, 2011), an economic activity  is understood as referring to a 
process, that is , the combination of actions carried out by a certain entity that uses labor, capital, goods 
and services to produce specific products (goods and services). In general, industrial statistics reflect  the 
characteristics and economic activities of units engaged in a class of ind ustrial activities that are defined in 
terms of the International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, Revision 4 (ISIC 
Rev.4) (United Nations, 2008) or International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, 
Revision 3.1 (ISIC Rev. 3) (United Nations, 2002).  
 
Total numbers of persons employed  is defined as the total number of persons who work in or for the 
statistical unit, whether full -time or part -time, including:  
• Working proprietors  
• Active business partners  
• Unpaid family workers  
• Paid employees (for more details see United Nations, 2011).  
 Last updated: 2023 -12-15 
The size of a statistical unit based on employment should be defined primarily in terms of the average 
number of persons employed in that unit during the reference period. If the average number of persons 
employed is not available, the total number of persons employed in a single period may be used as the size 
criterion. The size classification should consist of the following classes of the average number of persons 
employed : 1-9, 10 -19, 20 -49, 50 -249, 250 and more. This should be considered a minimum division of the 
overall range; more detailed classifications, where required, should be developed within this framework.  
Value added  cannot be directly observed from the account ing records of the units. It is derived as the 
difference between gross output or census output and intermediate consumption or census input (United 
Nations, 2011). The value added at basic prices is calculated as the difference between the gross output at  
basic prices and the intermediate consumption at purchasers’ prices. The valuation of value added closely 
corresponds to the valuation of gross output. If the output is valued at basic prices, then the valuation of 
value added is also at basic prices (the  valuation of intermediate consumption is always at purchasers’ 
prices).  
 
All above mentioned terms are introduced to be in line with IRIS 2008 (United Nations, 2011).  
 
