Definitions1: 
Small -scale industrial enterprises, in the SDG framework also called “small -scale industries”, defined here 
for the purpose of stat istical data collection and compilation refer to statistical units, generally enterprises, 
engaged in production of goods and services for market below a designated size class.  
 
 
1 Some of the text on concepts and definition may be identical to Metadata submitted for Indicators 9.3.1.  Last updated:  2023-12-15 
This indicator shows the number of “small -scale industries” with an active lin e of credit or a loan from a 
financial institution in the reference year in percentage to the total number of such enterprises.  
 
  
International recommendations for industrial statistics 2008 (IRIS 2008) (United Nations, 2011) define an 
enterprise  as the smallest legal unit that constitutes an organizational unit producing goods or services . 
The enterprise is the basic statistical uni t at which all information relating to its production activities and 
transactions, including financial and balance -sheet accounts, are maintained. It is also used for institutional 
sector classification in the 2008 System of National Accounts.  
 
An establis hment  is defined as an enterprise or part of an enterprise that is situated in a single location 
and in which only a single productive activity is carried out or in which the principal productive activity 
accounts for most of the value added. An establishm ent can be defined ideally as an economic unit that 
engages, under single ownership or control, that is, under a single legal entity, in one, or predominantly 
one, kind of economic activity at a single physical location. Mines, factories and workshops are examples. 
This ideal concept of an establishment is applicable to many of the situations encountered in industrial 
inquiries, particularly in manufacturing.  
 
Although the definition of an establishment allows for the possibility that there may be one or mo re 
secondary activities carried out in it, their magnitude should be small compared with that of the principal 
activity. If a secondary activity within an establishment is as important, or nearly as important, as the 
principal activity, then the unit is mo re like a local unit. It should be subdivided so that the secondary 
activity is treated as taking place within an establishment separate from the establishment in which the 
principal activity takes place.  
 
In the case of most small -sized businesses , the en terprise and the establishment will be identical. Some 
enterprises are large and complex with different kinds of economic activities undertaken at different 
locations. Such enterprises should be broken down into one or more establishments, provided that sm aller 
and more homogeneous production units can be identified for which production data may be meaningfully 
compiled.  
 
As introduced in IRIS 2008 (United Nations, 2011), an economic activity  is understood as referring to a 
process, that is ,  the combinat ion of actions carried out by a certain entity that uses labor, capital, goods 
and services to produce specific products (goods and services). In general, industrial statistics reflect  the 
characteristics and economic activities of units engaged in a class  of industrial activities that are defined in 
terms of the International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities, Revision 4 (ISIC 
Rev.4) (United Nations, 2008) or International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activ ities, 
Revision 3.1 (ISIC Rev. 3) (United Nations, 2002).  
 
Total numbers of persons employed  is defined as the total number of persons who work in or for the 
statistical unit, whether full -time or part -time, including:  
• Working proprietors  
• Active business p artners  
• Unpaid family workers  
• Paid employees (for more details see United Nations, 2011).  
 Last updated:  2023-12-15 
The size of a statistical unit based on employment should be defined primarily in terms of the average 
number of persons employed in that unit during the reference p eriod. If the average number of persons 
employed is not available, the total number of persons employed in a single period may be used as the size 
criterion. The size classification should consist of the following classes of the average number of persons 
employed: 1 -9, 10 -19, 20 -49, 50 -249, 250 and more. This should be considered a minimum division of the 
overall range; more detailed classifications, where required, should be developed within this framework.  
 
A loan  is a financial instrument that is created when a creditor lends funds directly to a debtor and receives 
a non-negotiable  document as evidence of the asset. This category includes overdrafts, mortgage loans, 
loans to finance trade credit and advances, repu rchase agreements, financial assets and liabilities created 
by financial leases, and claims on or liabilities to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in the form of loans. 
Trade credit and advances and similar accounts payable/receivable are not loans. Lo ans that have become 
marketable in secondary markets should be reclassified under debt securities. However, if only traded 
occasionally, the loan is not reclassified under debt securities (IMF, 2011).  
 
Lines of credit  and loan commitments provide a guarant ee that undrawn funds will be available in the 
future, but no financial liability/asset exists until such funds are provided. Undrawn lines of credit and 
undisbursed loan commitments are contingent liabilities of the issuing institutions — generally, banks (IMF, 
2011). A loan or line of credit refers to regulated financial institutions only.  
 
