Definitions:  Last updated:  2024 -06-28 
Carbon dioxide (here after, CO 2) emissions per unit of value added is an indicator computed as ratio 
between CO 2 emissions from fuel combustion and the value added of associated economic activities. The 
indicator can be computed for the whole economy (total CO 2 emissions/GDP) or for spe cific sectors, 
notably the manufacturing sector (CO 2 emissions from manufacturing industries per manufacturing value 
added (MVA) ).  
 
  
Total CO 2 emissions for an economy are estimated based on energy consumption data for all sectors.  
CO 2 emission s from manufacturing are based on energy data collected across  the following subsectors 
(energy used for transport by industry is not included here but reported under transport):  
• Iron and steel industry [ISIC Group 241 and Class 2431];  
• Chemical and petrochemical industry  [ISIC  Divisions  20 and 21] excluding petrochem ical 
feedstocks;  
• Non-ferrous metals basic industries [ISIC Group 242 and Class 2432];  
• Non-metallic  minerals  such as glass, ceramic, cement,  etc. [ISIC Division 23];  
• Transport equipment [ISIC Divisions 29 and 30];  
• Machinery  comprises  fabricated metal  produc ts, machinery and equipment other than transport 
equipment [ISIC Divisions 25 to 28];  
• Food and tobacco [ISIC Divisions 10 to 12];  
• Paper, pulp and printing [ISIC Divisions 17 and 18];  
• Wood and wood products (other than pulp and paper) [ISIC Division 16];  
• Textile and leather [ISIC Divisions 13 to 15];  
• Non-specified (any manufacturing industry not included above) [ISIC  Divisions 22, 31 and 32].  
 
Energy data are collected at a country level, based on internationally agreed standards (UN International 
Recommendations on Energy Statistics  (IRES) ). CO 2 emissions need to be estimated based on energy data 
and on internationally agreed methodologies ( 2006 IPCC Guidelines for  National  GHG Inventories).  
The IEA collects national energy data, acc ording to internationally agreed energy statistics definitions and 
estimates CO 2 emissions based on the  2006  IPCC Guidelines for National GHG Inventories ’ Tier 1 
methodology, producing internationally comparable CO 2 emissions data for over 150 countries an d regions.  
The g ross value added measures the cont ribution to the economy of each individual producer, industry  or 
sector in a country. The gross value added generated by any unit engaged in production activity can be 
calculated as the residu al of the units’ total output less int ermediate consumption, goods and services used 
up in the process of producing the output , or a s the sum of the factor incomes gene rated by the production 
process (System of National Accounts 2008). Manufacturing refers to industries  belonging to the sector C 
defined by International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities  (ISIC) Revision 4, or D 
defined by ISIC Revision 3.  
 
GDP  represents the sum of  gross  value added from all institutional units resident in the economy . For the 
purpose on comparability  over time and across countries, GDP based on purchasing power parity  (PPP) is 
used to calculate the total CO 2 emissions intensity of the economy.  MVA is estimated in ter ms of constant 
prices in USD. The current series are given at constant prices of 2015 . 
 
 
 Last updated:  2024 -06-28 
