Definitions:  
The proportion of medium -high and high -tech industry (MHT hereafter) value added in total value added 
of manufacturing (MVA hereafter) is a ratio value between the value added of MHT industry and MVA.  
 
  Last updated:  2024-03-28 
 The value added of an industry (industry value added) is a survey concept that refers to the given industry’s 
net output derived from the difference of gross output and  intermediate consumption. Manufacturing 
sector  is defined according to the International Standard Industrial Classification of all Economic Activities 
(ISIC) Revision 3 (1990) or Revision 4 (2008). It refers to industries belonging to Section  D in ISIC R evision 3 
or Section  C in ISIC Revision 4.  
 
Technology classification is based on research and development (R&D) expenditure relative to value 
added (R&D intensity  hereafter) .  Data for R&D intensity are presented in a report published by the OECD 
(OECD, 2003 ; Galindo -Rueda  and Verger, 2016 , for ISIC Revision 3 and 4 respectively ), which also 
proposes a taxonomy for industry groups with different ranges of R&D expenditure relative to their gross 
value added. MHT industries have  traditionally been defined exclusively to manufacturing industries. 
However, there have been recent efforts (Galindo -Rueda and Verger, 2016) to extend the definition to 
non-manufacturing industries as well. Nevertheless, medium -high and high technology se ctors are 
primarily represented by manufacturing industries.  
 
The following table includes the classification of MHT industries by ISIC Rev. 3 and ISIC Rev. 4.  
 
ISIC 
Rev.4  Description  ISIC 
Rev.3  Description  
20 Manufacture of chemicals and chemical 
products  24 Manufacture of chemicals and chemical 
products  
21 Manufacture of basic pharmaceutical 
products and pharmaceutical 
preparations  29 Manufacture of machinery and equipment 
n.e.c.  
252 Manufacture of weapons and ammunition  30 Manufacture of office, accounting and 
computing machinery  
26 Manufacture of computer, electronic and 
optical products  31 Manufacture of electrical machinery and 
apparatus n.e.c.  
27 Manufacture of electrical equipment  32 Manufacture of radio, television a nd 
communication equipment and apparatus  
28 Manufacture of machinery and 
equipment n.e.c.  33 Manufacture of medical, precision and 
optical instruments, watches and clocks  
29 Manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers 
and semi -trailers  34 Manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers 
and semi -trailers  
30* Manufacture of other transport 
equipment   35** Manufacture of other transport 
equipment  
325 Manufacture of medical and dental 
instruments and supplies    
* Excluding 301 ( Building of ships and boats)  
** Excluding 351 ( Building and repairing of ships and boats)  
 
MVA is the value added of manufacturing industry, which is Section C of ISIC Rev.4  or Section D of ISIC 
Rev.3.  
 
