The indicator 14.1.1 includes two sub -indicators:  
• 14.1.1a Index of coastal eutrophication (ICEP) , and  
• 14.1.1b Plastic debris density.  
 
The indicator  14.1.1a “ Index of coastal eutrophication ” (ICEP)  is based on loads and ratios of nitrogen, 
phosphorous and silica delivered by rivers to coastal waters (Garnier et al. 2010) which contribute to the 
ICEP. This indicator assumes that excess nitrogen or phosphorus relative to silica will result in increase d 
growth of potentially harmful algae (ICEP>0).  
 
The indicator  14.1.1b “Plastic debris density " includes potential measurement of plastics washed onto 
beaches or shorelines, floating on the water or in the water column, deposited on the seafloor/seabed, as  
well as ingested by biota ; however, it is also important to note the importance of monitoring information 
on waste management and the sources of plastic pollution for understanding plastic pollution.  
 
Across the 14.1.1a and 14.1.1b, two mandatory levels a re proposed:  
Level 1: Global Data Products ( globally available data from earth observations and modelling ),  
Level 2: National Data, which are collected from countries (through the relevant Regional Seas 
Programme for countries that are member of a Regional Seas Programme , or directly by UNEP ). 
 
The tables  1 and 2  demonstrate the proposed parameters for sub-indicators  14.1.1a and 14.1.1b.  
 
Table  1: Monitoring parameters for eutrophication to track progress against SDG Indicator 14.1.1a.  
Monitoring parameters  Level 1  Level 2  
Indicator for Coastal Eutrophication Potential (N and P loading)  X  
Chlorophyll -a deviations (remote sensing)  X  
Chlorophyll -a concentration ( remote sensing and in situ )  X 
National modelling of indicator for Coastal Eutrophication Potential (ICEP)   X 
Total Nitrogen   X 
Total Phosphorus   X Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
Total Silica   X 
 
Table 2: Monitoring parameters for marine plastic litter to track progress against SDG Indicator 14.1.1b.  
Monitoring parameters (and methods)   Level 1  Level 2  
Plastic patches greater than 10 meters*  X  
Beach litter originating from national land -based sources  X  
Beach litter (beach surveys)   X 
Floating plastics (visual observation, manta trawls)   X 
Water column plastics (demersal trawls)   X 
Seafloor litter (benthic trawls (e.g. fish survey trawls), divers, video/camera 
tows, submersibles, remotely operated vehicles)   X 
 
  
One of the largest pressures on coastal environments is eutrophication , resulting primarily from land -
based nutrient input from agricultural runoff and domestic wastewater discharge. Coastal eutrophication 
can lead to serious damage to marine eco systems, vital sea habitats, and can cause the spread of harmful 
algal blooms.  SDG Indicator 14.1.1a aims to measure the contribution to coastal eutrophication from 
countries and the state of coastal eutrophication.  
 
Eutrophication is an  excess nutrient loading into coastal environments from anthropogenic sources, 
resulting in excessive growth of plants, algae and phytoplankton.  The basis for these loads is collected 
from land -based assessments of land use including fertilizer use, population den sity, socioeconomic factors 
and other contributors to nutrient pollution runoff. Given the land -based nature of the indicator, it 
provides a modelled number indicating the risk of coastal eutrophication at a specific river mouth.  
 
One more important charac teristic is Chlorophyll -a deviation. Chlorophyll -a concentrations for this 
indicator are obtained from the global ocean, 4 km spatial  resolution per pixel monthly mean product of 
the OC -CCI project product for each pixel within the country’s territorial sea and exclusive economic zone.  
 
Territorial sea is a belt of coastal waters extending at most 12 nautical miles from the baseline of a coastal 
state, as outlined by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.  
 
The Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) is an area beyond and adjacent to the territorial sea. The EEZ shall not 
extend beyond 200 nautical miles from the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea is 
measured, as outlined by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.  
 
Based on the existing internationally agreed Group of Experts on the Scientific Aspects of Marine 
Environmental Protection (GESAMP) guidelines  and the existing national data collections, it is 
recommended that the SDG reporting includes sub -indicators related to beach litter, floating plastic and 
plastic in the sea column, plastic on the sea floor and additiona l option indicators.  
 
Plastic litter is most obvious on shorelines, where litter accumulates due to current, wave and wind action, 
river outflows and by direct littering at the coast. However, plastic litter occurs on the ocean surface, 
suspended in the wa ter column, on the seabed and in association with biota, due to entanglement or 
ingestion (GESAMP, 2019).  
 Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
Marine litter - any persistent, manufactured or processed solid material which is lost or discarded and ends 
up in the marine and coastal environment . 
 
The full methodology for this indicator is available in the document entitled “ Understanding the State of 
the Ocean: A Global Manual on Measuring SDG 14.1.1, SDG 14.2.1 and SDG 14.5.1 ” (UNEP, 2021).   
 
