Progress by countries in the degree of implementation of international instruments aiming to combat 
illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.  
 
  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
The definitions and concepts associated wit h the indicator and utilized in the methodology are defined in 
the FAO term portal: http://www.fao.org/faoterm/collection/fisheries/en/   
 
This indicator i s based on a country’s implementation of the different international instruments that 
combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (IUU fishing). IUU fishing undermines national and 
regional efforts to conserve and manage fish stocks and, as a conseq uence, inhibits progress towards 
achieving the goals of long -term sustainability and responsibility as set forth in, inter alia, Chapter 17 of 
Agenda 21 and the 1995 FAO Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries. Moreover, IUU fishing greatly 
disadvantages  and discriminates against those fishers that act responsibly, honestly and in accordance 
with the terms of their fishing authorizations. This is a compelling reason why IUU fishing must be dealt 
with expeditiously and in a transparent manner. If IUU fishi ng is not curbed, and if IUU fishers target 
vulnerable stocks that are subject to strict management controls or moratoria, efforts to rebuild those 
stocks to healthy levels will not be achieved. To efficiently curb IUU fishing a number of different 
interna tional instruments have been developed over the years that focus on the implementation of the 
different responsibilities of States.  
 
The instruments covered by this indicator and their role in combatting IUU fishing are as follows:  
 
• The 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS)  
This instrument is the basis upon which all the subsequent instruments are built upon. UNCLOS defines 
the rights and responsibilities of nations with respect to their use of the world's oceans, establishing 
guidelines for businesses, the environment, and the management of marine natural resources. It is a 
binding instrument, although its principles may also be applied by countries who are not party to it.  
 
• The Agreement for the Implemen tation of the Provisions of the United Nations Convention on 
the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 Relating to the Conservation and Management of 
Straddling Fish Stocks and Highly Migratory Fish Stocks (UN Fish Stocks Agreement)  
The UN Fish Stocks Agreeme nt entered into force on 11 December 2001, and is the most comprehensive 
of the binding international instruments in defining the role of Regional Fisheries Management 
Organisations and elaborating measures that could be taken in relation to IUU fishing ac tivities. Although 
the UN Fish Stocks Agreement applies primarily to the highly migratory and straddling fish stocks on the 
high seas, its broad acceptance and application is evidenced by the reinforcement of other international 
instruments, implementation  at the regional level, and to some extent by State practice within areas of 
national jurisdiction.  
 
• The International Plan of Action to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and 
Unregulated Fishing (IPOA -IUU)  
The objective of the IPOA is to p revent, deter and eliminate IUU fishing by providing all States with 
comprehensive, effective and transparent measures by which to act, including through appropriate 
regional fisheries management organizations established in accordance with international l aw. This 
instrument covers all the aspects of a State’s responsibilities including, flag State responsibilities, coastal 
State measures, port State measures, internationally agreed market -related measures, research and 
regional fisheries management organiz ations.  
 
• The 2009 FAO Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, 
Unreported and Unregulated Fishing (PSMA)  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
The FAO Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported and 
Unregulated Fishing  entered into force on the 5th of June 2016. The main purpose of the Agreement is to 
prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing through the 
implementation of robust port State measures. The Agreement envisages that parti es, in their capacities 
as port States, will apply the Agreement in an effective manner to foreign vessels when seeking entry to 
ports or while they are in port. The application of the measures set out in the Agreement will, inter alia, 
contribute to harmo nized port State measures, enhanced regional and international cooperation and 
block the flow of IUU -caught fish into national and international markets.  
 
• The FAO Voluntary Guidelines for Flag State Performance (VG -FSP)  
The FAO Voluntary Guidelines for F lag State Performance spell out a range of actions that countries can 
take to ensure that vessels registered under their flags do not conduct IUU fishing, including monitoring, 
control and surveillance (MCS) activities, such as vessel monitoring systems (V MS) and observers. They 
promote information exchange and cooperation among countries so that flag states are in a position to 
refuse to register vessels that are "flag -hopping" by attempting to register with another flag state or to 
refuse vessels that hav e been reported for IUU fishing. The Guidelines also include recommendations on 
how countries can encourage compliance and take action against non -compliance by vessels, as well as 
on how to enhance international cooperation to assist developing countries to fulfil their flag state 
responsibilities.  
 
• The FAO Agreement to Promote Compliance with International Conservation and Management 
Measures by Fishing Vessels on the High Seas (Compliance Agreement)  
The 1993 FAO Compliance Agreement entered into force on the 24th of April 2003. Its main purpose is to 
encourage countries to take effective action, consistent with international law, and to deter the 
reflagging of vessels by their nationals as a means of avoiding compliance with applicable conservation 
and management rules for fishing activities on the high seas. With respect to the role of RFBs, the 
preamble calls upon States which do not participate in global, regional or sub regional fishery 
organizations or arrangements to do so, with a view to achieving  compliance with international 
conservation and management measures.  
 
