Indicator 1 4.a.1 shows the annual national research budget allocated by governments in the field of 
marine technology, relative to the overall national governmental research and development budget in 
general.  
 
  Last u pdated:  2024-08-02 
Definitions and mechanisms used in the develo pment of the SDG indicator 14.a.1 are based on the IOC 
Criteria and Guidelines on Transfer of Marine Technology  – IOCCGTMT (originally published and endorsed 
by IOC Member States in 2005 . These guidelines provide an internationally agreed definition of wha t is 
understood by the term marine technology  and have been referenced in various UN General Assembly 
Resolutions and specifically in the formulation of SDG target 14.a. These are further explained in the 
Global Ocean Science Report (GOSR) referenced below . 
 
Marine technology as defined in the IOCCGTMT refers to instruments, equipment, vessels, processes and 
methodologies required to produce and use knowledge to improve the study and understanding of the 
nature and resources of the ocean and coastal areas. Toward this end, marine technology may include 
any of the following components:  
a) Information and data, in a user -friendly format, on marine sciences and related marine 
operations and services;  
b) Manuals, guidelines, criteria, standards, reference materials;  
c) Sampling and methodology equipment (e.g., for water, geological, biological, chemical samples);  
d) Observation facilities and equipment (e.g. remote sensing equipment, buoys, tide gauges, 
shipboard and other means of ocean observation);  
e) Equipment f or in situ and laboratory observations, analysis and experimentation;  
f) Computer and computer software, including models and modelling techniques;  
g) Expertise, knowledge, skills, technical/scientific/legal know -how and analytical methods related 
to marine scie ntific research and observation.  
 
  
The concepts used for the definition and calculation of the indicator 14.a.1 are based on sim ilar concepts 
used in the UNESCO Science Report (2010, 2015).These reports present GERD data (gross domestic 
expenditure on research and experimental development) as a share of GDP (gross domestic product) and 
further provide the R&D (research and developm ent) expenditure by sector of performance in % (Table 
S2 in the 2015 UNESCO Science Rep ort). In addition , UIS publishes science field specific R&D, e.g. natural 
science s (http://data.uis.unesco.org/).  
 
The definitions and classifications used to collect R& D data are based on the ‘Frascati Manual: Proposed 
Standard Practice for Surveys on Research and Experimental Development’ (OECD , 2002 ). 
 
