The nature of the housing sector with its institutions, laws and regulations, is one that touches every 
single aspect of the economy of a country and has interface with practically every social development 
secto r. People living in adequate homes have better health, higher chances to improve their human 
capital and seize the opportunities available in urban contexts. At the same time, a housing sector that Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
performs well acts as a ‘development multiplier’ benefitin g complementary industries, contributing to 
economic development, employment generation, service provision and overall poverty reduction.  
 
Broadly, for every job in the house -building sector, an additional 1.5 to 2 jobs are generally created in the 
constr uction materials and other input industries. The contributions of housing to urban prosperity are 
also evident. The UN -Habitat City Prosperity Initiative reveals indicates that inadequate housing has 
negative effects on several other dimensions of urban pr osperity. Urban contexts with housing conditions 
below average experience poorer equity and inclusion, reduced urban safety and livelihood 
opportunities, and have neglected connectivity and provision of public space.  
 
Inadequate housing thus remains a glob al urban sustainability challenge , but also development 
opportunity. At the same time, the thematic area of ‘adequate housing’ and especially the term ‘slums’ - 
are often highly politicized. More nuanced definitions of these terms would enable and support a more 
robust and measured debate, greater engagement by all key stakeholders and the development of 
specific recommendations for application within each context and place.   
 
There are a number of interrelated terms that must be grappled with when conside ring an indicator for 
the SDG Target 11.1. They include inadequate housing and housing affordability, informal settlements 
and slums.  
 
Housing affordability  
One of the most daunting challenges of urbanization globally has been the provision of adequate housing 
that people can afford. Findings from the UN Global Sample of Cities1 show that people across all types of 
urban centres are not able to afford home ownership or even the cost of rental housing. In low -income 
countries for example, househ olds need to save the equivalent of nearly eight times their annual 
household income in order to be able to afford the price of a standard house in their town or city. If they 
rent, households have to commit more than 25 per cent of their monthly income to  rent payments.2  
 
The affordability issue is affecting the developing and developed worlds alike. In Latin America, high 
house price -to-income ratio and inaccessible housing finance compel households to resort to informal 
solutions without the benefits o f planning and safety regulations. In many parts of Sub -Saharan Africa, 
less than 10 per cent of households are able to afford a mortgage for even the cheapest newly built 
house. In fact, African households face 55 per cent higher housing costs relative to  their per capita GDP 
than in other regions.3 In many European countries, families, especially the youth, are severely cost 
burdened and have much less to spend on other necessities such as food, health, transport and clothing. 
In extreme circumstances, households are forced to leave their accommodat ion because of the inability 
to pay. The current migration crisis has worsened housing conditions in the region, a trend that seems set 
to continue in the next few years.  
 
Inadequate housing, informal settlements and slums  
 
1 UN-Habitat (2016). Fundaments of Urbanization. Evidence Base for Policy Making. Nairobi: UN -Habitat  
2 Ibid 
3 World Bank, 2017. Africa’s Cities: Opening Doors to the World.  Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
Today, an estimated 1.6 billion p eople live in inadequate housing globally, of which 1 billion live in slums 
and informal settlements4. This means that about one in four people in cities live in conditions that harm 
their health, safety, prosperity and opportunities. Lack of access to ba sic services is a common constraint 
in informal settlements and slums: worldwide 2.4 billion people live without improved sanitation and 2 
billion are affected by water stress. In spite of a decrease from 39 to 30 per cent of urban population 
living in slu ms between 2000 and 2014, absolute numbers continue to grow: currently, one quarter of the 
world’s urban population is estimated to live in slums, 881 million urban residents as opposed to 792 
million in 2000.  Young women - and children -headed households a re often the most vulnerable to 
inadequate housing conditions. Homelessness is also a growing challenge and it is estimated that more 
than 100 million people worldwide are homeless.5 
 
Slums represent one of the most extreme forms of deprivation and exclus ion and remain a critical factor 
for the persistence of poverty and exclusion in the world – indeed a challenge for sustainable and 
inclusive urbanization. Research shows that other forms of urban poverty in the form of informal 
settlements increasingly be come a worldwide phenomenon found also in the developed world.  
 
At the same time, not all people who live in inadequate housing live in slums but are nonetheless living in 
very substandard conditions in the urban contexts in which they are situated. The na ture of these 
unsatisfactory living conditions must be captured and better represented in the global, country and city -
level data to ensure a more robust picture of inadequate housing is documented. In light of this, the 
following definitions are proposed.  
 
Definition and concept:  
As per the 2030 Agenda, it is necessary to identify and quantify the proportion of the population that live 
in slums, informal settlements  and those living in inadequate housing  in order to inform the development 
of the appropria te policies and programmes for ensuring access for all to adequate housing and the 
upgrading of slums.  
a. Slums – An expert group meeting was convened in 2002 by UN -Habitat, the United Nations Statistics 
Division and the Cities Alliance to agree on an ope rational definition for slums to be used for measuring 
the indicator of MDG 7 Target 7.D. The agreed definition classified a ‘slum household’  as one in which the 
inhabitants suffer one or more  of the following ‘household deprivations’ : 
1. Lack of access to im proved water source,  
2. Lack of access to improved sanitation facilities,  
3. Lack of sufficient living area,  
4. Lack of housing durability and,  
5. Lack of security of tenure.  
 
By extension, the term ‘slum dweller’  refers to a person living in a household that lacks any of the above 
attributes.6 
 
 
4 UN-Habitat (2016). World Cities Report. UN -Habitat (2005). Financing Shelter.  
5 UN-HABITAT (2005). Financing Urban Shelter: Global Report on Human Settlements 2005. Nairobi: UN -
Habitat  
6 UN-Habitat (2003), Slums of the World: The face of urban poverty in the new millennium; 
<mirror.unhabitat.org/pmss/getElectronicVersion.aspx?nr=1124&a lt=1>  Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
These five components –all derived from the adequate housing’s definition have been used ever since for 
reporting and tracking of the MDGs, as the primary or secondary dat a measured to determine the 
number of slum dwellers living in developing countries. They were also the basis to establish the 
successful achievement of MDG Target 7.D. For each component, the experts agreed with the following 
sub-definitions:7 
 
1) Access to improved water  – A household is considered to have access to improved drinking water if the 
household members use a facility that is  protected from outside contamination, in particular from faecal 
matters’ contamination. Improved drinking water sources include: piped water into dwelling, plot or 
yard; public tap/stand pipe serving no more than 5 households; protected spring; rainwater collection; 
bottled water (if secondary source is also improved); bore hole/tube well; and, protected dug well.  
 
2) Access to improved sanitation  – A household is considered to have access to improved sanitation if 
household members have access to a facility with an excreta disposal system that hygienically  separates 
human waste from human contact. Improved facilities i nclude: flush/pour -flush toilets or latrines 
connected to a sewer, septic tank or pit; ventilated improved pit latrine; pit latrine with a slab or 
platform, which covers the pit entirely; and, composting toilets/latrines.  
 
3) Sufficient living area  /overcr owding – A dwelling unit provides sufficient living area for the household 
members if not more than three people share the same habitable room.8 Additional indicators of 
overcrowding have been proposed: area -level indicators such as average in -house living  area per person 
or the number of households per area. Additionally, housing -unit level indicators such as the number of 
persons per bed or the number of children under five per room may also be viable. However, the number 
of persons per room has been show n to correlate with adverse health risks and is more commonly 
collected through household survey.9. UN -Habitat believes that the definition as it stands does not reflect 
the practical experience of overcrowding and as noted below, is proposing an alternat ive.  
 
 
7 United Nations (2007), Indicators of Sustainable Development: Guidelines and Methodologies. Third Edition, United 
Nations, New York; < https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/index.php?page=view&type=400&nr=107&>; UN -Habitat 
(2003), Slums of the Worl d: The face of urban poverty in the new millennium.  
8 The original EGM’s advice considered a range of less than three to four people per habitable room. When this indicator 
got operationalized during the MDG 7 Target 7.D’s tracking, overcrowding was fixed at a maximum of three people per 
habitable room (‘minimum of four square meters,’ <http://mdgs.un.org/unsd/mdg/Metadata.aspx>).  
9 UN-Habitat (1998), Crowding and Health in Low Income Settlements of Guinea Bissau, SIEP Occasional Seri es No.1.  Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
 
Figure 1 - Example of Overcrowding  
 
4) Structural quality/durability of dwellings  – A house is considered as ‘durable’ if it is built on a non -
hazardous location and has a permanent and adequate structure able to protect its inhabitants from the 
extremes of climatic conditions such as rain, heat, cold, and humidity. The following crite ria are used to 
determine the structural quality/durability of dwellings: permanency of structure (permanent building 
material for the walls, roof and floor; compliance with building codes; the dwelling is not in a dilapidated 
state; the dwelling is not in  need of major repair); and location of house (hazardous location; the dwelling 
is not located on or near toxic waste; the dwelling is not located in a flood plain; the dwelling is not 
located on a steep slope; the dwelling is not located in a dangerous ri ght of way: rail, highway, airport, 
power lines).  
 
5) Security of tenure  – Secure tenure is the right of all individuals and groups to effective protection by 
the State against forced evictions. Security of tenure is understood as a set of relationships wi th respect 
to housing and land, established through statutory or customary law or informal or hybrid arrangements, 
that enables one to live in one’s home with security, peace and dignity (A/HRC/25/54). Regardless of the 
type of tenure, all persons with sec urity of tenure have a legal status against arbitrary unlawful eviction, 
harassment and other threats. People have secure tenure when: there is evidence of documentation that 
can be used as proof of secure tenure status; and, there is either de facto or pe rceived protection from 
forced evictions. Important progress has been made to integrate the measurement of this component 
into the computation of the people living in slums.  
 
Informal Settlements  
b. Informal Settlements  – Informal settlements are usually seen as synonymous of slums, with a 
particular focus on the formal status of land, structure and services. They are defined by three main 
Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
criteria, according to Habitat III Issue Paper #2210, which are already covered in the definition of slums. 
These are:   
1. Inhabitants have no security of tenure  vis-à-vis the land or dwellings they inhabit, with modalities 
ranging from squatting to informal rental housing,  
2. The neighbourhoods usually lack, or are cut off from, formal basic services  and city 
infrastructure, and  
3. The housing may not comply with current planning and building regulations , is often situated in 
geographically and environmentally hazardous areas, and may lack a municipal permit.  
 
Informal settlements can be occupied by all income levels of urban residents, affluent and poor.    
 
Inadequate Housing  
c. Inadequate Housing – Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights includes housing as one 
of the components of the right to adequate standards of living for all.11 The United Nations Committee 
on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights’ general comments No.4 (1991) on th e right to adequate housing 
and No.7 (1997) on forced evictions have underlined that the right to adequate housing should be seen 
as the right to live somewhere in security, peace and dignity. For housing to be adequate, it must provide 
more than four wall s and a roof, and at a minimum, meet the following criteria:  
1. Legal security of tenure , which guarantees legal protection against forced evictions, harassment 
and other threats;  
2. Availability of services, materials, facilities and infrastructure , including  safe drinking water, 
adequate sanitation, energy for cooking, heating, lighting, food storage or refuse disposal;  
3. Affordability , as housing is not adequate if its cost threatens or compromises the occupants’ 
enjoyment of other human rights;  
4. Habitability , as housing is not adequate if it does not guarantee physical safety or provide 
adequate space, as well as protection against the cold, damp, heat, rain, wind, other threats to 
health and structural hazards;  
5. Accessibility , as housing is not adequate if the specific needs of disadvantaged and marginalized 
groups are not taken into account (such as the poor, people facing discrimination; persons with 
disabilities, victims of natural disasters);  
6. Location , as housing is not adequate if it is cut  off from employment opportunities, health -care 
services, schools, childcare centres and other social facilities, or if located in dangerous or 
polluted sites or in immediate proximity to pollution sources; and  
7. Cultural adequacy , as housing is not adequate  if it does not respect and take into account the 
expression of cultural identity and ways of life.  
 
Table 1. Criteria defining slums, informal settlements and inadequate housing  
 Slums  Informal Settlements  Inadequate Housing  
access to water  X X X 
access to sanitation  X X X 
 
10 United Nations (2015), Conference on Housing and Sustainable Urban Development – Habitat III, Issue Paper No. 22 on 
Informal Settlements; UN -Habitat (2015), Slum Almanac 2015 -2016.  
11 Article 25 (1) “Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well -being of himself and of his 
family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the 
event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age o r other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his 
control.”  Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
sufficient living area, 
overcrowding  X  X 
structural quality, 
durability and location  X X X 
security of tenure  X X X 
affordability    X 
accessibility    X 
cultural adequacy    X 
 
 
