Civil society organizations (CSOs) make a difference in international development. They provide 
development services and humanitarian relief, innovate in service delivery, build local capacity and 
advocate with and for the poor. Acting alone, however, thei r impact is limited in scope, scale and 
sustainability. CSOs need to engage in government policy processes more effectively. The development of 
sustainable human settlements calls for the active engagement of all key stakeholders with particular 
attention to project/programme beneficiaries and vulnerable groups.  Therefore local and national 
governments should strive to: a) facilitate and protect people’s participation and civic engagement through 
independent civil society organizations that can be from diverse backgrounds - local, national, and 
international; b) promote civic and human rights education and training programm es to make urban 
residents aware of their rights and the changing roles of diverse women, men, and young women and men Last updated:  2022 -05-18 
in urban settings; c) remove the barriers that block participation of socially marginalized groups and 
promote non -discrimination and the  full and equal participation of women, young men and women and 
marginalized groups. To monitor this indicator fully, it is important to define cities as unique entities and 
define what constitutes direct participation structures of civil society. Urban pl anning and management 
are more clear concepts that UN -Habitat has worked on developing for the last few decades and these are 
well articulated in the urban agenda documents. Experts who have worked on the methodological 
developments of this indicator have there fore put forth the below definitions to help guide the work on 
this indicator.  
 
  
City or urban area : Since 2016 UN -Habitat and partners organized global consultations and discussions to 
narrow down the set of meaningful definitions that would be helpful for the global monitoring and 
reporting process. Following consultations with 86 member states, the United Nations Statistical 
Commission, in its 51st Session (March 2020) endorsed the Degree of Urbanisation (DEGURBA) as a 
workable method to delineate cities, urban and rural areas for international statistical comparisons.1  This 
definition combines population size and population density thresholds to classify the entire territory of a 
country along the urban -rural continuum, and captures the full extent of a city, including the dense 
neighbourhoods beyond the boundary of the central municipality. DEGURBA is applied in a two -step 
process: First, 1 km2 grid cells are classified based on population density, contiguity and population size. 
Subsequently, local units are classified as urban or rural based on the type of grid cells in which majority of 
their population resides.   
Other concepts  
Democratic participation:  Structures allow and encourage participation of civil society represen ting a 
cross -section of society that allows for equal representation of all members of the community with equal 
rights for participation and voting.  
 
Direct participation:  Structures allow and encourage civil society accessing and actively engaging in 
decision -making, without intermediaries, at every stage of the urban planning and management process.  
 
Regular participation:  Structures allow and encourage civil society participation in urban planning and 
management processes at every stage, and at least ev ery six months.  
 
Marginalized groups:  Groups of people that are not traditionally given equal voice in governance 
processes. These include, but are not limited to, women, young men and women, low -income 
communities, ethnic minorities, religious minorities,  people with disabilities, the elderly, and sexual and 
gender identity minorities and migrants.  
 
Structures:  Any formal structure that allows for participation of civil society. This can include, but is not 
limited to national or local legislation, policy,  town council meetings, websites, elections, suggestion 
boxes, appeals processes, notice period for planning proposals etc.  
 
Civil Society:  The combination of non -governmental organizations, community groups, community -based 
organizations, regional repres entative groups, unions, research institutes, think tanks, professional 
 
1 A recommendation on the method to delineate cities, urban and rural areas for international statistical 
comparisons. https://unstats.un.org/unsd/stat com/51st -session/documents/BG -Item3j -Recommendation -
E.pdf   Last updated:  2022 -05-18 
bodies, non -profit sports and cultural groups, and any other groups that represent the interests and wills 
of the members and wider community.  
 
Urban Management:  The officials, includ ing elected officials and public servants, that are responsible for 
city-management, across all sectors, such as roads, water, sanitation, energy, public space, land title etc.  
Urban Budget decision making: The process by which money is allocated to variou s sectors of urban 
management, including roads, roads, water, sanitation, energy, public space, land title etc.  
 
Urban Planning, including Design and Agreements : The technical and political process that concerns the 
development and use of land, how the nat ural environment is used etc. Design includes over -arching and 
specific design of public space, as well as zoning and land use definitions. Agreements refer to specific 
contract/arrangements made with various groups in regard to their land, e.g. Indigenous  groups, 
protected natural environments etc.  
 
 
