SDG 11.6 targets an improved environmental performance of cities and SDG indicator 11.6.1 measures 
the progress of the performance of a city’s municipal solid waste management. It quantifies the 
parameters listed below, which are essential for planning and implementing sustainable Municipal Solid 
Waste (MSW). In most cases, these variables are generally compatible with those collected th rough the 
UNSD/UNEP Questionnaire on Environment Statistics (waste section).  
a) Total MSW generated in the city (tonnes/day)  Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
b) Total MSW collected in the city (tonnes/day)  
c) Proportion of population with access to basic MSW collection services in the city (%)  
d) Total MSW managed in controlled facilities in the city (tonnes/day)  
e) MSW composition  
It is important to realize that part (b) total MSW collected and (c) proportion of the population with 
access to basic MSW collection services are two different concepts. W hile part (b) refers to amounts of 
waste reaching waste management facilities, part (c) considers the population who receive waste 
collection services. In some cities it is common to dump waste ‘collected’ from households into the 
surrounding areas instead  of transporting it to a disposal or recovery facility. In this case the household 
has waste collection services, but the collected waste is polluting the environment. Therefore, it is 
possible that a city has a high proportion of population with access to  basic waste collection services, but 
the amount of MSW collected and transported to waste management facilities is low.  
Although part (c) is covered by SDG 1 (“End poverty in all its forms everywhere”), under target 1.4 and 
SDG indicator 1.4.1 which focus es on universal access to basic services, with a particular emphasis on 
poor and vulnerable groups, this document provides guidelines, quality ladders and household 
questionnaires to measure the proportion of the population with access to ‘basic’ MSW colle ction 
services.  The household questionnaire can be integrated into the national census or global household 
survey mechanism such as Demographic and Health Survey or UNICEF’s Multiple Indicator Cluster 
Surveys. Due to the lack of standardized concepts and d efinitions that differentiate these two concepts, 
many cities report the proportion of collected MSW in their own terms. Therefore, this metadata 
distinguishes clearly between part (b) and (c) and offers introduction to the approaches to monitor and 
report  on part (c).  
 
  
Municipal Solid Waste (MSW)  
Municipal Solid Waste  includes waste  generated from: households, commerce and trade, small 
businesses, office buildings and institutions (schools, hospitals, government buildings). It also includes 
bulky waste (e.g. white goods, old furniture, mattresses) and waste from selected municipal services, e.g. 
waste from park and garden maintenance, waste from street cleaning services (street sweepings, the 
content of litter containers, market clea nsing waste), if managed as waste. The definition excludes waste 
from municipal sewage network and treatment, municipal construction and demolition waste.  
Generation  
Total MSW Generated  is the sum of the amount of municipal waste collected plus the estimated amount 
of municipal waste from areas not served by a municipal waste collection service.  
Collection  
Total MSW Collected  refers to the amount of municipal waste collected by or on behalf of municipalities, 
as well as municipal waste collected by t he private sector. It includes mixed waste, and fractions collected 
separately for recovery operations (through door -to-door collection and/or through voluntary deposits).  Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
 
Figure 1: What MSW collected means for SDG indicator 11.6.1  
The proportion of the population with Access to Basic MSW Collection Services is  the proportion of the 
population who receive waste collection services that are either basic, improved or full, defined by the 
service ladder of MSW collectio n service. It considers aspects of frequency, regularity and proximity of 
the collection points (  
Table  1). This aspect is measured under the SDG indicator 11.6.1 assessment but it is reported through a 
different indicator, SDG 1.4.1. on access to basic services.  
Table 1: Ladder of MSW collection service that household receives  
SERVICE 
LEVEL  DEFINITION  
Full  Receiving door -to-door MSW collection service with basic frequency and regularity and MSW is 
collected in three or more separate fractions; or  
 Having a designated collection point within 200m distance served with basic frequency and 
regularity and without major littering and MSW is collected in three or more separate fractions    
Improved   Receiving door -to-door MSW collection service with basic frequency and regularity and MSW is 
collected in a minimum of two, separate fractions (e .g. wet and dry fractions)  
 Having a designated collection point within 200m distance served with basic frequency and 
regularity and without major littering and MSW is collected in a minimum of two, separate 
fractions (e .g. wet and dry fractions)  
Basic   Receiving door -to-door MSW collection service with basic frequency and regularity or  
 Having designated collection point within 200m distance served with basic frequency and 
regularity  
Limited   Receiving door -to-door MSW collection service without basic frequency and regularity;  
 Having a designated collection point within 200m distance but not served with basic frequency 
and regularity; or  
 Having designated collection point in further than 200 m distance.  
No  Receiving no waste collection service  
Note: Basic frequency and regularity: served at least once a week for one year  
 
Recovery  
Recovery  means any operation the principal result of which is waste serving a useful purpose by replacing 
other materials which would otherwise have been used to fulfil a particular function, or waste being 
prepared to fulfil that function, in the plant or in the wider economy.  
Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
Recovery facilities  include any facility with recovery activities defined above including  recycling, 
composting, incineration with energy recovery, materials recovery facilities (MRF), mechanical biological 
treatment (MBT), etc.  
Material Recovery Facility  (MRF; or materials reclamation facility, materials recycling facility, multi re -use 
facility) is a specialized recovery facility that receives, separates and prepares recyclable materials for 
marketing to further processors or end -user manufacturers.  
Mechanical Biological Treatment  (MBT) facilities are a type of recovery facility that combines  an MRF 
with a form of biological treatment such as composting or anaerobic digestion.  
Incineration  is the controlled combustion of waste with or without energy recovery.  
Incineration with Energy Recovery  is the controlled combustion of waste with energy r ecovery.  
Recycling  is defined under the UNSD/UNEP Questionnaire and further for the purpose of these indicators 
as “Any reprocessing of waste material in a production process  that diverts it from the waste stream, 
except reuse as fuel.  Both reprocessing a s the same type of product, and for different purposes should 
be included. Recycling within industrial plants i.e., at the place of generation should be excluded.” For the 
purpose of consistency with the Basel Convention reporting and correspondence with E UROSTAT 
reporting system, Recovery operations R2 to R12 listed in Basel Convention Annex IV, are to be 
considered as ‘Recycling’ under the UNSD reporting for hazardous waste.  
Recycling value chain  usually involves several steps of the private recycling in dustry which purchase, 
process and trade materials from the point a recyclable material is extracted from the waste stream until 
it will be reprocessed into products, materials or substances that have market value. In many low and 
low-to-middle income coun tries, this involves informal waste pickers, many middlemen, traders, apex 
traders and end -of-chain recyclers.  
Apex traders  collect recyclable materials from different sources and suppliers (in different cities across 
municipal or even national boundaries ) and supply them to different end -of-chain recyclers (sometimes 
after pre -processing such as sorting, washing and bailing).  
End-of-chain recyclers  purchase recyclable material from suppliers such as apex traders and reprocess it 
into products, materials, or substances that have market value.  Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
 
Figure 2: Complexity in the recovery chain (plastic example)  
Disposal  
Disposal  means any operation whose main purpose is not the recovery of materials or energy even if the 
operation has as a secondary consequence the reclamation of substances or energy.  
Disposal Facilities  refer to sites which are regularly used by the public auth orities and private collectors, 
regardless of their level of control and legality, to dispose of waste. Such sites may or may not have an 
official recognition, a permit or a license.  Disposal sites may be managed in either a controlled or 
uncontrolled man ner. The definition excludes other unrecognized places where waste is deposited 
occasionally in small amounts which public authorities may organise clean ups to remove the waste from 
these sites.  
Landfill  is the deposit of waste into or onto land. It inclu des specially engineered landfill sites and 
temporary storage of over one year on permanent sites. The definition covers both landfills at internal 
sites, i.e. where a generator of waste is carrying out its own waste disposal at the place of generation, 
and at external sites.  
Control level of MSW recovery and disposal facilities  
MSW Managed in Controlled Facilities  refers to MSW collected and transported to recovery and disposal 
facilities with basic, improved or full control according to the Ladder of waste management facilities’ 
control level ( Table 2: Ladder of waste management facilities’ control level. Table 2). The Ladder can be used as a 
checklist for assessing the level of control of a particular recovery or disposal facility. The facility has the 
level of control, where it checks the most boxes.  Note that the emphasis is on operational control rather 
than engineering/design. A facility that is constructed to a high standard, but not operated in compliance 
with Level 3 (or above) standard is not regarded as a controlled facility.  
Table 2: Ladder of waste management facilities’ control level.  
CONTROL 
LEVEL  Landfill site  Incineration with energy 
recovery  Other recovery facilities  
Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
 Full 
Control   Waste daily covered  
 Waste compacted  
 Site fenced and full 24 -
hour control of access  
 Properly sited, designed 
and functional sanitary 
landfill  
 Leachate containment and 
treatment (naturally 
consolidated clay on the 
site or constructed liner)  
 Landfill gas collection and 
flaring and/or utilization  
 Site staffed;  
 Post closure plan  
 Weighing and recording 
conducted  
 Protection of workers’ 
health and safety   Built to and operating in 
compliance with current 
national laws and 
standards including 
stringent stack and GHG 
emission criteria  
 Emission controls are 
conducted compliant to 
environme ntal standards 
and results of tests are 
accessible and transparent 
to citizens/users  
 Fly ash managed as a 
hazardous waste using the 
best appropriate 
technology  
 Weighing and recording 
conducted  
 A strong and robust 
environmental regulator 
inspects and monitors 
emissions  
 Protection of workers’ 
health and safety  
  Built to and operating in 
compliance with current 
national laws and standards  
 Pollution control compliant 
to environmental standards  
 Protection of workers’ 
health and safety  
 The nutrient value of 
biologically treated 
materials utilized for 
separate organic waste (e.g. 
in agriculture/horticulture)  
 Materials are extracted, 
processed according to 
market specifications, and 
sold to recycling markets  
 Weighing and recording of 
incoming loads conducted   
 All outgoing loads registered 
by weight and type of 
destination  
Improved 
Control   Waste periodically covered  
 Waste compacted  
 Site fenced and control of 
access  
 Leachate containment and 
treatment  
 Landfill gas collection 
(depending on landfill 
technology)  
 Site staffed  
 Weighing and recording 
conducted  
 Provisions made for 
workers’ health and safety  N/A  Engineered facilities with 
effective process control  
 Pollution control compliant 
to environmental standards  
 Protection of workers’ 
health and safe ty 
 Evidence of materials 
extracted being delivered 
into recycling or recovery 
markets.  
 Weighing and recording of 
incoming and outgoing 
loads conducted  
Basic 
Control   Some use of cover  
 Waste compacted  
 Sufficient equipment for 
compaction  
 Site fenced and control of 
access  
 No fire/smoke existence  
 Site staffed  
 Weighing and recording 
conducted  
 The slope of the landfill is 
stable, landslides not 
possible  
 Provisions made for 
workers’ health and safety   Emissi on controls to 
capture particulates  
 Trained staff follow set 
operating procedures  
 Equipment maintained  
 Ash management carried 
out 
 Weighing and recording 
conducted  
 Provisions made for 
workers’ health and safety   Registered facilities with 
marked boundaries  
 Some environmental 
pollution control  
 Provisions made for 
workers’ health and safety  
 Weighing and recording of 
incoming and outgoing 
loads conducted  
Limited 
Control   No cover  
 Some compaction  
 Some equipment for 
compaction  
 Some level of access 
control/fencing  
 No leachate control  
 Some fire/smoke existence  
 Site staffed  N/A  Unregistered faci lities with 
distinguishable boundaries  
 No environmental pollution 
control  
 No provisions made for 
workers’ health and safety  
 Weighing and recording 
conducted  Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
 Weighing and recording 
conducted  
 The slope of the landfill is 
unstable with high 
possibility of a landslide  
No 
Control   No cover  
 No compaction  
 No/ limited equipment  
 No fencing  
 No leachate control  
 Fire/smoke existence  
 No staff  
 The slope of the landfill is 
unstable with high 
possibility of a landslide   Uncontrolled burning  
 No air/water pollution 
control   Unregistered locations with 
no distinguishable 
boundaries  
 No provisions made for 
workers’ health and safety  
 No environmental pollution 
control  
 
Formality of MSWM  
The Formality of MSWM  activities is an important aspect to take into consideration when conducting the 
SDG indicator 11.6.1 assessment. MSWM activities are carried out by formal and i nformal economic 
units, both public and private, and by generators for the purpose of prevention, collection, 
transportation, treatment and disposal of waste.  
Formal waste management  relates to waste management activities undertaken by units working within 
the context of the formal governmental or non -state actors regulating and operating waste management; 
that is, organisations or individuals registered as economic units with governm ent authorities and 
assumed to generally abide by local laws and regulations related to wastes and their management.  
Informal waste management, recycling and recovery  refers  to waste management and recovery activities 
undertaken by individuals, economic units, or enterprises which are not sponsored, financed, recognised, 
supported, organised or acknowledged by the formal solid waste authorities, or which operate in 
violation of or in competition with formal authorities (Scheinberg et al., 2010). Informal units are 
assumed to abide by local waste -related laws and regulations when it is in their interests to do so.  
 
