Definitions:
Carbon dioxide (here after, CO2) emissions per unit of value added is an indicator computed as ratio between CO2 emissions from fuel combustion and the value added of associated economic activities. The indicator can be computed for the whole economy (total CO2 emissions/GDP) or for specific sectors, notably the manufacturing sector (CO2 emissions from manufacturing industries per manufacturing value added (MVA)). 


Total CO2 emissions for an economy are estimated based on energy consumption data for all sectors.
CO2 emissions from manufacturing are based on energy data collected across the following subsectors (energy used for transport by industry is not included here but reported under transport):
Iron and steel industry [ISIC Group 241 and Class 2431];
Chemical and petrochemical industry [ISIC Divisions 20 and 21] excluding petrochemical feedstocks;
Non-ferrous metals basic industries [ISIC Group 242 and Class 2432];
Non-metallic minerals such as glass, ceramic, cement, etc. [ISIC Division 23];
Transport equipment [ISIC Divisions 29 and 30];
Machinery comprises fabricated metal products, machinery and equipment other than transport equipment [ISIC Divisions 25 to 28];
Food and tobacco [ISIC Divisions 10 to 12];
Paper, pulp and printing [ISIC Divisions 17 and 18];
Wood and wood products (other than pulp and paper) [ISIC Division 16];
Textile and leather [ISIC Divisions 13 to 15];
Non-specified (any manufacturing industry not included above) [ISIC Divisions 22, 31 and 32].

Energy data are collected at a country level, based on internationally agreed standards (UN International Recommendations on Energy Statistics (IRES)). CO2 emissions need to be estimated based on energy data and on internationally agreed methodologies (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National GHG Inventories). 
The IEA collects national energy data, according to internationally agreed energy statistics definitions and estimates CO2 emissions based on the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National GHG Inventories’ Tier 1 methodology, producing internationally comparable CO2 emissions data for over 150 countries and regions.
The gross value added measures the contribution to the economy of each individual producer, industry or sector in a country. The gross value added generated by any unit engaged in production activity can be calculated as the residual of the units’ total output less intermediate consumption, goods and services used up in the process of producing the output, or as the sum of the factor incomes generated by the production process (System of National Accounts 2008). Manufacturing refers to industries belonging to the sector C defined by International Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC) Revision 4, or D defined by ISIC Revision 3.

GDP represents the sum of gross value added from all institutional units resident in the economy. For the purpose on comparability over time and across countries, GDP based on purchasing power parity (PPP) is used to calculate the total CO2 emissions intensity of the economy. MVA is estimated in terms of constant prices in USD. The current series are given at constant prices of 2015.



