Definitions:
The indicator (commonly known as the Rural Access Index or RAI) measures the share of a country’s rural population that lives within 2 km of an all-season road.


The indicator is measured by combining three sets of geospatial data: where people live, the spatial distribution of the road network, and road passability. The use of spatial data has various advantages. It can help ensure consistency across countries. The level of spatial resolution is broadly the same regardless of the size of the country or subnational boundaries. Any given norm of connectivity (for example, 2 km distance from a road) is uniquely and unambiguously applied for all countries. 

Population Distribution - Quality population distribution data are essential for correct measurement of rural access. In some countries, census data is available in a geospatially detailed, reliable format. For other countries, population distribution datasets have been developed by the international research community, interpreting subnational census data through various modelling techniques. For the RAI, WorldPop data has been found to provide a reliable estimate. That estimate can also be refined through engagement between the national statistics offices and WorldPop to reconcile data at the level of enumeration areas.

Rural-Urban Definition – Related to population distribution data, an important challenge facing the index is the need for a consistent and reliable urban and rural definition to exclude urban areas from the calculation. The inclusion of urban areas would create a substantial upward bias in the RAI, because most urban residents have access to a road, no matter how it is defined. Ideally, spatial data determining urban-rural boundaries are needed at the same level of resolution as the population data. As such data may rely on different sources and definitions across different countries. Globally produced urban extents may be used, such as the Global Urban Rural Mapping Project v1 Urban Extent Polygons.

Road Network Data – Data on road location or alignment can come from a number of sources. Ideally government data are used because they are consistent with the official road network for which road agencies are responsible. The government data are also relatively easily merged with other operational databases in the road sector. In countries where the road location data may not be detailed enough or entirely missing or where there is a large unclassified network, alternative data sources may be used, such as the open source OpenStreetMap. 

Road Condition Data – The principle of the “all-season” road network remains central to the original concept of measuring the RAI.  An “all-season road” is defined as a road that is motorable all year round by the prevailing means of rural transport (often a pick-up or a truck which does not have four-wheel-drive). Predictable interruptions of short duration during inclement weather (e.g. heavy rainfall) are accepted, particularly on low volume roads. A road that it is likely to be impassable to the prevailing means of rural transport for a total of 7 days or more per year is not regarded as all-season. Note that some roads agencies use the term “all-weather” to describe their roads, however “all-weather” typically means “paved” and should not be confused with “all-season” which can include unpaved roads too.

It is important to determine whether access to facilities and services is available all year round, and hence the possibility of the road throughout the year is an essential factor in this aspect of contributing to economic growth and poverty reduction. Information on the road conditions is typically maintained by national road agencies as part of their operational responsibilities. 

The traditional road inventory survey can collect data on road condition, including the International Roughness Index (IRI), at a high level of information quality, to determine whether a road is “all-season”. For the purpose of the RAI, for instance, the road condition threshold can be set at an IRI of less than 6 meters/km for paved roads, and an IRI of less than 13 meters/km for unpaved roads. When IRI is not available, other types of condition assessment may be used if comparable.  There are smartphone-based software using GPS and accelerometer that can map roads, estimate road roughness, and identify which rural roads are all-seasonal. The road condition thresholds should be calibrated to the local conditions, i.e. checks should be made to determine that paved roads in poor condition are largely not all-season, and that unpaved roads in fair or poor condition are largely not all-season. The parameters can be adjusted accordingly to the local conditions, based on a systematic and documented study.
In the event that accurate road condition data is not available, then, accessibility factors may provide an alternative means to road condition for identifying “all-season” roads. Such factors may not require ground measurements of road condition but are those which determine the likelihood of a road being all-season, or the risk of a road being inaccessible, given all other available geospatial data and information related to the road sector. Ideally, the used data change over time but can be time-invariant. In such a case, the estimated indicator will be fixed and not change over time. 

