)  
Definitions:  
Data on SDG 10.7.3 are currently based on the International Organization for Migration (IOM)’s Missing 
Migrants Project (MMP)  dataset , which since 2014 has documented incidents in which migrants 
(regardless of legal status) have died or are presumed to have died in the process of migration towards 
an international destination. This selection of data is based on the currently ava ilable sources and can 
provide some insight into the risks of migration routes.  
 
The MMP aims to provide information on the risks linked to unsafe and irregular  international  migration 
movement s along key routes and corridors , and thus its definition of a migrant death excludes cases of 
migrants who die in countries where they have established residence. Deaths in refugee housing, Last updated:  2024-05-24 
immigration detention centres or camps are similarly excluded unless the death can clearly be linked to a 
hazard of the journey,  e.g. a sickness contracted en route. MMP data also exclude deaths that occur after 
return to a migrant’s homeland or third country, as well as deaths more loosely connected with migrants’ 
precarious or irregular status, such as those resulting from labour  exploitation , occupational illness  or 
accidents  Ior resulting from lack of access to health care. Disappearances of migrants en route in which 
there is no presumption of death (i.e. excluding shipwrecks and potential drownings) are also excluded.  
 
Data on  SDG 10.7.3 are organized by the c ountry in which the incident s occurred. If the incident took 
place at an international border or in international waters the country of departure is used.  
 
  
(based  on the IOM Glossary on Migration, 2019)  
Migrant : An umbrella term, not defined under international law, reflecting the common lay 
understanding of a person who moves away from his or her place of usual residence, whether within a 
country or across an international border, temporarily or permanently, and  for a variety of reasons. The 
term includes a number of well -defined legal categories of people, such as migrant workers; persons 
whose particular types of movements are legally -defined, such as smuggled migrants; as well as those 
whose status or means of  movement are not specifically defined under international law, such as 
international students.  
 
Irregular migration : Movement of persons that takes place outside the laws, regulations, or international 
agreements governing the entry into or exit from the State of origin, transit or destination.  
 
