Definitions:  
SDG Indicator 10.7.2 aims to describe the state of national migration policies and how such policies 
change over time. The informati on collected seeks to identify both progress made and gaps, thus 
contributing to the evidence base for actionable recommendations for the implementation of SDG target 
10.7. The indicator also serve s for the future th ematic reviews at the High -level Political Forum on 
Sustainable Development (HLPF).  
 
The conceptual framework for indicator 10.7.2 is IOM´s Migration Governance Framework (MiGOF), 
which was welcomed by 157 countries (IOM Council Resolution C/106/RES/1310) . The MiGOF has three 
principles and three objectives (figure 1).  
 
Figure  1. Principles  and objectives of the  Migration Governance Framework  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The three principles propose the necessary conditions for migration to be well -managed by creating a 
more effective environment for maximized results for migration to be beneficial to all. These represent 
the means through which a State can ensure that the systemic requirements for good migration 
governance are in place.  
 
The three objectives are specific and do not require any further conventions, laws or practices than the 
ones that are already existing. Taken together, these objectives ensure that migration is governed in an 
integrated and holistic way, responding to the  need to consider mobile  categories of people and address 
their needs for assistance in the event of an emergency, building resilience of individuals and 
communities, as well as ensuring opportunities for the economic and social health of the State.  
 
Last updated:  2023-03-31 
In line with the MiGOF, the proposed methodology for SDG indicator 10.7.2 is comprised of six policy 
domains, with one proxy measure for each domain (table 1).  
Table 1. Domains and proxy measures for SDG indicator 10.7.2  
 Domain  Proxy measure  
1. Migrant rights  Degree to which migrants have equity in access to services, including 
health care, education, decent work, social security and welfare benefits  
2. Whole -of-government/ 
Evidence -based policies  Dedicated institutions, legal frameworks and policies or strategies to 
govern migration  
3. Cooperation and partnerships  Government measures to foster cooperation and encourage stakeholder 
inclusion and participation in migration policy  
4. Socioeconomic well -being  Government measures to maximize the positive development impact of 
migration and the socioeconomic well -being of migrants  
5. Mobility dimensions of crises  Government measures to deliver comprehensive responses to refugees 
and other forcibly displaced persons  
6. Safe, orderly and regular 
migration  Government measures to address regular or irregular immigration  
 
For each of the domains and corresponding proxy measures, one question was specified, each one of 
them informed by five sub -categories or responses (table 2), to capture key aspects of the range of 
migration policies at the national level, while allowing the indicator to detect relevant variations across 
countries and over time.  
Table 2. Questions  and sub-categories for SDG indicator 10.7.2  
 Question  Sub-categories  
Domain 1: Does the Government provide 
non-nationals equal access to 
the following services, welfare 
benefits and rights?  a. Essential and/or emergency health care  
b. Public education  
c. Equal pay for equal work  
d. Social protection  
e. Access to justice  
Domain 2:  Does the Government have any 
of the following institutions, 
policies or strategies to govern 
immigration or emigration?  a. A dedicated Government agency to implement national 
migration policy  
b. A national policy or strategy for regular migration pathways, 
including labour migration  
c. A national policy or strategy to promote the inclusion or 
integration of immigrants  
d. Formal mechanisms to ensure that the migration p olicy is 
gender responsive  
e. A mechanism to ensure that migration policy is informed by 
data, appropriately disaggregated  Last updated:  2023-03-31 
 Question  Sub-categories  
Domain 3 : Does the Government take any 
of the following measures to 
foster cooperation among 
countries and encourage 
stakeholder inclusion and 
participation in migration 
policy?  a. An interministerial coordination mechanism on migration  
b. Bilateral agreements on migration, including labour migration  
c. Regional agreements promoting mobility  
d. Agreements for cooperatio n with other countries on return and 
readmission  
e. Formal mechanisms to engage civil society and the private 
sector in the formulation and implementation of migration 
policy  
Domain 4:  Does the Government take any 
of the following measures to 
maximize the positive 
development impact of 
migration and the 
socioeconomic well -being of 
migrants?  a. Align, through periodic assessments, labour migration policies 
with actual and projected labour market needs  
b. Facilitate the portability of social secu rity benefits  
c. Facilitate the recognition of skills and qualifications acquired 
abroad  
d. Facilitate or promote the flow of remittances  
e. Promote fair and ethical recruitment of migrant workers  
Domain 5: Does the Government take any 
of the following measures to 
respond to refugees and other 
persons forcibly displaced 
across international borders?  a. System for receiving, processing  and identifying those forced to 
flee across international borders  
b. Contingency planning for displaced populations in terms of 
basic needs such as food, sanitation, education and medical 
care  
c. Specific measures to provide assistance to citizens residin g 
abroad in countries in crisis or post -crisis situations  
d. A national disaster risk reduction strategy with specific 
provisions for addressing the displacement impacts of disasters  
e. Grant permission for temporary stay or temporary protection 
for those  forcibly displaced across international borders and 
those unable to return  
Domain 6: Does the Government address 
regular or irregular immigration 
through any of the following 
measures?  a. System to monitor visa overstays  
b. Pre -arrival authorization controls  
c. Provisions for unaccompanied minors or separated children  
d. Migration information and awareness -raising campaigns  
e. Formal strategies to address trafficking in persons and migrant 
smuggling  
 
  
SDG target 10.7 is broad in scope and many, but not all, of the terms are well defined. The IOM Glossary 
on Migration1 provides a definition of key concepts such as orderly and regular migration, but not other s 
such as safe and responsible migration. According to the Glossa ry, orderly migration refers to “the 
movement of a person from his/her usual place of residence, in keeping with the laws and regulations 
 
1 IOM (2019). Glossary on Migration . Available at: 
https://publications.iom.int/system/files/pdf/iml_34_glossary.pdf . Last updated:  2023-03-31 
governing exit of the country of origin and travel, transit and entry into the host country”. Regular is 
defined as “m igration that occurs through recognized, legal channels”.  
 
While the concept of “well -managed migration policies” is not explicitly defined, according to the IOM 
Glossary, it is included in references to migration management, migration governance and facilitated 
migration. Migration management refers to the planne d approach to the development of policy, and 
legislative and administrative responses to key migration issues. Migration governance is defined as a 
system of institutions, legal frameworks, mechanisms and practices aimed at regulating migration and 
protect ing migrants. Facilitated migration refers to fostering or encouraging regular migration, for 
example through streamlined visa application process.  
 
