The indicator provides the number of countries that have adopted and implemented investment promotion regimes for developing countries, including least developed countries (LDCs).


Investment promotion regimes can be defined as those instruments that directly aim at encouraging outward or inward foreign investment through particular measures of the home or host countries of investment. 
Investment promotion regimes for LDCs are those instruments that home countries of investors have put in place to encourage outward investment in LDCs directly or through measures intended for developing countries. 
Home country refers to donor countries that put in place investment promotion regimes to encourage outward investment which can benefit developing countries, including LDCs. 
Foreign direct investment involves a long-term relationship and reflects a lasting interest and control by a resident entity in one economy (foreign direct investor or parent enterprise) in an enterprise resident in an economy other than that of the foreign direct investor (FDI enterprise or affiliate enterprise or foreign affiliate).
Adoption means that a country has put in place such a system i.e. through the formal adoption of a law, regulation or programme to encourage investment in developing countries, including LDCs. 
Implementation means that a country has actually started to promote individual investments in developing countries, including LDCs, on the basis of the relevant legislation. 
Instruments used under investment promotion regimes include investment guarantees, financial or fiscal support for outward investors. Besides these legal instruments, countries often also provide information and other advisory and investment facilitation services for their outward investors. 
Investment guarantee is an insurance, offered by governments of the home country or other institutions, to investors to protect against certain political risks in host countries, such as the risk of discrimination, expropriation, transfer restrictions or breach of contract.

