The scope of indicator 2.4.1 is the agricultural farm holding, and more precisely the agricultural land area of the farm holding, i.e. land used primarily to grow crops and raise livestock. This choice of scope is fully consistent with the intended use of a country’s agricultural land area as the denominator of the aggregate indicator. Specifically, the following are:

Included within scope:
Intensive and extensive crops and livestock production systems.
Subsistence agriculture.
State and common land when used exclusively and managed by the farm holding.
Food and non-food crops and livestock products (e.g. tobacco, cotton, and sheep wool). 
Crops grown for fodder or for energy purposes.
Agro-forestry (trees on the agriculture areas of the farm).
Aquaculture, to the extent that it takes place within the agricultural land area. For example, rice-fish farming and similar systems. 

Excluded from scope:
State and common land not used exclusively by the farm holding.
Nomadic pastoralism.
Production from gardens and backyards. Production from hobby farms.
Holdings focusing exclusively on aquaculture. 
Holdings focusing exclusively on forestry.
Food harvested from the wild.


The literature review (Hayati, 2017) identified a large number of potential sustainability themes across the three dimensions of sustainability and, for each theme, usually a large number of possible sub-indicators. The key considerations in the selection of themes are relevance and measurability. In terms of relevance, the relationship between the associated sub-indicator and sustainable agriculture outcomes at farm level should be strong. Following this approach, only sub-indicators that are responsive to farm level policies aimed at improving sustainable agriculture are considered. In terms of measurability, only a “core” set of themes and sub-indicators for which measurement and reporting is expected in the majority of countries are selected.

A key aspect of all approaches to measuring sustainable agriculture is the recognition that sustainability is a multi-dimensional concept, and that these multiple dimensions need to be reflected in the construction of the indicator. This implies that SDG indicator 2.4.1 must be based on a set of sub-indicators that cover these three dimensions.

Through a consultative process that has lasted over two years, 11 themes and sub-indicators have been identified, which make up SDG 2.4.1.


Please see the annex for a detailed description of the sub-indicators.

