The conservation of plant and animal genetic resources for food and agriculture (GRFA) in medium- or long-term conservation facilities (ex situ, in genebanks) represents the most trusted means of conserving genetic resources worldwide. Plant and animal GRFA conserved in these facilities can be easily used in breeding programmes as well, even directly on-farm.

The measure of trends in ex situ conserved materials provides an overall assessment of the extent to which we are managing to maintain and/or increase the total genetic diversity available for future use and thus protected from any permanent loss of genetic diversity which may occur in the natural habitat, i.e. in situ, or on-farm.

The two components of the indicator 2.5.1, plant (a) and animal (b) GRFA, are separately counted.

The plant component is calculated as the number of accessions of plant genetic resources secured in conservation facilities under medium- or long-term conditions, where an ‘accession’ is defined as a distinct sample of seeds, planting materials or plants which is maintained in a genebank. Genebank Standards for Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (accessible at http://www.fao.org/documents/card/en/c/7b79ee93-0f3c-5f58-9adc-5d4ef063f9c7/), set the benchmark for current scientific and technical best practices for conserving plant genetic resources, and support key international policy instruments for the conservation and use of plant genetic resources. These voluntary standards have been endorsed by the FAO Commission on Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture at its Fourteenth Regular Session (http://www.fao.org/docrep/meeting/028/mg538e.pdf). 


Plant genetic resources for food and agriculture (PGRFA): Any genetic material of plant origin of actual or potential value for food and agriculture.

Accession: An accession is defined as a sample of seeds, planting materials or plants representing either a wild population, a landrace, a breeding line or an improved cultivar, which is conserved in a genebank. Each accession should be distinct and, in terms of genetic integrity, as close as possible to the sample provided originally.

Base collection: A base collection is defined as a set of unique accessions to be preserved for a medium to long-term period.

Active collection: An active collection is defined as a set of distinct accessions that is used for regeneration, multiplication, distribution, characterization and evaluation. Active collections are maintained in short to medium-term storage and usually duplicated in a base collection. 

Medium- or long-term conservation facilities: Biological diversity is often conserved ex situ, outside its natural habitat, in facilities called genebanks. In the case of plant genetic resources, genebanks conserve base collections under medium- or long-term storage conditions, in the form of seeds in cold rooms, plants in the field and tissues in vitro and/or cryoconserved. 

