Percentage of children and young people achieving at least a minimum proficiency level in (i) reading and 
(ii) mathematics during prim ary education (Grade 2 or 3), at the end of primary education, and at the end 
of lower secondary education. The minimum proficiency level will be measured relative to new common 
reading and mathematics scales currently in development.  
 
  
Minimum proficiency level (MPL)  is the benchmark of basic knowledge in a domain (mathematics, 
reading, etc.) measured through learning assessments. In September 2018, an agreement was reached on Last updated: 2022-03-31 
a verbal definition of the global minimum proficiency level o f reference for each of the areas and 
domains of Indicator 4.1.1 as described in the Minimum Proficiency Levels (MPLs): Outcomes of the 
consensu s building meeting . 
 
Minimum proficiency levels defined by each learning assessment  
To ensure comparability across learning assessments, a verbal definition of MPL for each domain and 
levels between cross -national assessments (CNAs) was established by cond ucting an analysis of the 
performance level descriptors (PLDs)1 of cross -national, regional, and community -led tests in reading and 
mathematics. The analysis was led and completed by the UIS and a consensus among experts on the 
proposed methodology was deemed adequate and pragmatic.  
The global MPL definitions for the domains of reading and mathematics are presented in Table 1.  
     Table 1. Minimum proficiency levels defined by each learning assessment  
Reading  
Educational Level  Descriptor  
Grade 2  They read and comprehend most of written words, particularly 
familiar ones, and extract explicit information from sentences.   
Grade 3  Students read aloud written words accurately and fluently. They 
understand the overall meaning of sentences and short texts. 
Students identify the texts’ topic . 
Grades 4 & 6  Students interpret and give some explanations about the main 
and secondary ideas in different types of texts. They establish 
connections between main ideas on a text and their personal 
experiences as well as general knowledge.   
Grades 8 & 9  Student s establish connections between main ideas on different 
text types and the author’s intentions. They reflect and draw 
conclusions based on the text.  
 
Mathematics  
Educational Level  Descriptor  
Grades 2 -3 Students demonstrate skills in number sense and computation, 
shape recognition and spatial orientation.  
Grades 4 -6 Students demonstrate skills in number sense and computation, 
basic measurement, reading, interpreting, and constructing 
graphs, spatial orientation, and number patterns.  
Grades 8 & 9  Students demonstrate skills in computation, application 
problems, matching tables and graphs, and making use of 
algebraic representations.   
 
