The participation rate in organized learning (one year before the official primary entry age), by sex is 
defined as the percentage of children in the given age range who participate in one or more organized 
learning programme, including programmes which of fer a combination of education and care. 
Participation in early childhood and in primary education are both included. The age range will vary by 
country depending on the official age of entry to primary education.  
 
  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
An organized learning programme  is one which consists of a coherent set or sequence of educational 
activities designed with the intention of achieving pre -determined learning outcomes or the 
accomplishment of a specific set of educational tasks. Early childhood and primary education 
programmes are examples of organized learning programmes.  
 
Early childhood and primary education are defined in the 2011 revision of the International Standard 
Classification of Education (ISCED 2011). Early childhood education is typically designed with a h olistic 
approach to support children’s early cognitive, physical, social and emotional development and to 
introduce young children to organized instruction outside the family context. Primary education offers 
learning and educational activities designed to  provide students with fundamental skills in reading, 
writing and mathematics and establish a solid foundation for learning and understanding core areas of 
knowledge and personal development. It focuses on learning at a basic level of complexity with littl e, if 
any, specialisation.  
 
The official primary entry age is the age at which children are obliged to start primary education 
according to national legislation or policies. Where more than one age is specified, for example, in 
different parts of a countr y, the most common official entry age (i.e. the age at which most children in 
the country are expected to start primary) is used for the calculation of this indicator at the global level.  
 
