)  
  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
The indicator measures the progress towards national targets established in accordance with Aichi 
Biodiversity Target 2 of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011 -2020: By 2020, at the latest, biodiversity 
values have been integrated into national and local development and poverty reduction strategies and 
planning processes and are being incorporated into national accounting, as appropriate, and reporting 
systems.  
 
The indicator is divided in two sub -indicat ors:  
• 15.9.1 (a): Number of countries that established national targets in accordance with Aichi 
Biodiversity Target 2 of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011 -2020 in their national biodiversity 
strategy and action plans and the progress reported towards these targets . 
• 15.9.1 (b): Integrat ion of biodiversity into national accounting and reporting systems, defined as 
implementation of the System of Environmental -Economic Accounting.  
 
  
Biodiversity  
The 1992 United Nations Earth Summit defined "biological diversity" as "the variability among living 
organisms from all sources, including, inter alia , terrestrial, marine and other aquatic ecosystems and the 
ecological complexes of which they are part: th is includes diversity within species, between species and 
of ecosystems".  
 
Aichi Biodiversity Target 2  
Aichi Biodiversity Target 2 is under  Strategic Goal A  of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011 -2020 , which  
address es the underlying causes of biodiversity loss by mainstreaming biodiversity across government and 
society.  
 
Aichi Biodiversity Target 2: By 2020, at the latest, biodiversity values have been integrated into national 
and local development and poverty reductio n strategies and planning processes and are being 
incorporated into national accounting, as appropriate,  and reporting systems.  
 
NBSAP s 
In accordance with Article 6 of the Convention on Biological Diversity, Parties are obligated to develop 
national biodiversity strategies and action plans, and integrate biodiversity considerations into relevant 
sectoral or cross -sectoral plans, programmes  and policies.  The National Biodiversity Strategy and Action 
Plan (NBSAP) is intended to define the current status of biodiversity, the threats leading to its degradation 
and the strategies and priority actions to ensure its conservation and sustainable us e within the framework 
of the socio -economic development of the country.  
 
National Reports  
In accordance with Article 26 of the Convention on Biological Diversity, Parties are obligated to provide 
information on measures taken towards the implementation of the Convention and its strategic plans, as 
reflected in the National Biodiversity Strategy  and Action Plan (NBSAP), as well as on the effectiveness of 
these measures. The format for the sixth national reports requested that Parties, among other things, 
provide an assessment of their progress towards their national targets and/or the Aichi Biodi versity 
Targets. These national reports are publicly available on the Convention’s Clearing -House Mechanism, 
which is constantly being improved to enhance usability by Parties and better contribute to assessment of Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
the implementation of the Strategic Plan for Biodiversity 2011 -2020 and the achievement of the Aichi 
Biodiversity Targets.  
 
The system of environmental -economic accounting  is presented by two international statistical standards: 
the System for Environmental -Economic Accounting Cent ral Framework (SEEA -CF), adopted in 2012, and 
the System for Environmental -Economic Accounting -Ecosystem Accounting (SEEA -EA), adopted in 2021.  
 
SEEA -CF  
The System for Environmental -Economic Accounting Central Framework (SEEA -CF) is an international 
statistical standard for measuring the environment and its relationship with the economy. It integrates 
economic and environmental data to provide a more compr ehensive and multipurpose view of the 
interrelationships between the economy and the environment and the stocks and changes in stocks of 
environmental assets, as they bring benefits to humanity.  
 
SEEA -EA  
The System for Environmental -Economic Accounting -Ecosystem Accounting (SEEA -EA) is an integrated 
statistical framework for organizing biophysical data, measuring ecosystem services  in physical and 
monetary terms , tracking changes in the condition and extent of ecosystem asset s and linking this 
information to economic and other human activity . The SEEA -EA takes the perspective of ecosystems  and 
considers how individual environmental assets interact as part of natural processes within a given spatial 
area.   
 
The Global Assessment of Environmental -Economic Accounting and Supporting Statistics  
The Global Assessment of Environmental -Economic Accounting and Supporting Statistics is a survey 
administered by the UNSD under the auspices of the UN Committee of Experts on Environmental Economi c 
Accounting (UNCEEA). The aim of the Global Assessment is to assess the progress in reaching the 
implementation targets of the UNCEEA.  
 
