Definition s: Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
   
 The indicator is composed of two sub -indicators to monitor  progress towards the conservation of mountain 
ecosystems:  
 
Sub-indicator 15.4.2a , Mountain Green Cover Index (MGCI) , is designed to measure the extent and changes 
of green cover  - i.e. forest, shrubs, trees, pasture land, cropland, etc. – in mountain areas . MGCI is defined 
as the percentage of green cover over the total surface of the mountain area  of a given country and for 
given reporting year. The aim of the index is to monitor the evolution of green cover and thus assess the 
status of conservation of mo untain ecosystems.  
 
Sub-indicator 15.4.2 b, Proportion of degraded mountain land, is designed to monitor the extent of 
degraded mountain land as a result of land cover change  in a given count ry and for given reporting year . 
Similarly to sub -indicator ‘’trends in land cover” under SDG Indicator 15.3.1 (Sims et al.  2021), mountain 
ecosystem degradation and recovery is assessed based on the definition of land cover type transitions that 
indicate improving, stable or degrad ing conservation status . The definition of degradation adopted for the 
computation of this indicator is the one established Intergovernmental Science -Policy Platform on 
Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES)1. 
 
  
Mountain area  is defined according to the UNEP -WCMC (2002)  method . It defines total glob al mountain 
area as the sum of seven  classes (commonly known as ‘Kapos mountain classes ’), based on elevation, slope 
and local elevation ranges (Table 1). 
 
Table 1 . Global mountain classes as defined by UNEP -WCMC (2002)  
Kapos Mountain Class  Description  
Class 1  Elevation >= 4500 meters  
Class 2  Elevation >= 3500 & < 4500 meters  
Class 3  Elevation >= 2500 & < 3500 meters  
Class 4  Elevation >= 1500 & < 2500 meters & slope >= 2 degrees  
Class 5  Elevation>= 1000 & < 1500 meters & slope >= 5 degrees OR local (7 km radius) 
elevation range > 300 meters  
Class 6  Elevation >= 300 & < 1000 meters & local (7 km radius) elevation range > 300 
meters  
Class 7  Inner isola ted areas (<= 25 Km2 in size) that do not m eet criteria but surrounded by  
mountains  
 
Prior to the methodological refinement of this indicator approved by the I nter-agency and Expert Group 
on SDG Indicators (I AEG-SDG ) in June 2022, the UNEP -WCMC classification was  used to disaggregate the 
indicator by  Kapos mountain class es. This is no longer the case, with Kapos mountain class es having been 
replaced by a bioclimatic belt s (see section 2.c below).  
Land cover refers to the observed physical cover of the Earth’s surface. It includes vegetation and man -
made features as well as bare rock, bare soil and inland water surfaces (FAO -GTOS, 2009).  The primary 
units for characterizing land cover are categories (e.g. Forest or Open Water). These categor ies must be 
 
1 IPBES defines land degradation as “the many human -caused processes that drive the decline or loss in 
biodiversity, ecosystem functions or ecosystem services in any terrestrial and associated aquatic ecosystems” 
(IPBES, 2018)  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
   
 defined following a standardized land cover classification in order to identify land cover changes 
consistently over time.  Several global standards of land cover classifications have been developed by 
international initiatives for this purpose.   
 
For the purposes of  standardization and harmonization when reporting on SDG Indicator 15.4.2 , this 
indicator  has adapted  the land cover classification established by the United Nations Statistical 
Commission’s System of Environmental and Economic Accounting (UN -SEEA) (UN Statistical Division, 2014) 
by selecting the most relevant SEEA classes for m ountain ecosystems and aggregating  all croplands classes  
(Table 2 ). 
 
Table 2.  Left:  Land cover classification established by the UN -SEEA (Source:  UN Statistical Division , 2014). Right: Adapted 
land cover classification for the computation and aggregate reporting on SDG Indicator 15.4.2.  
Original UN – SEEA land cover classification (n=14)  SDG Indicator 15.4.2 land cover classification (n=10)  
1 Artificial surfaces  1 Artificial surfaces  
2 Herbaceous crops   
2 Croplands  3 Woody crops   
4 Multiple  or layered crops   
5 Grassland   3 Grasslands  
6 Tree -covered areas   4 Tree -covered areas   
7 Mangroves   Discarded. Not relevant for mountains  
8 Shrub -covered areas   5 Shrub -covered areas   
9 Shrubs and/or herbaceous vegetation, aquatic or 
regularly flooded   6 Shrubs and/or herbaceous vegetation, aquatic or 
regularly flooded   
10 Sparsely natural vegetated areas   7 Sparsely natural vegetated areas   
11 Terrestrial barren land   8 Terrestrial barren land   
12 Permanent snow and glaciers   9 Permanent snow and glaciers   
13 Inland water bodies   10 Inland water bodies   
14 Coastal water bodies and intertidal areas   Discarded. Not relevant for mountains  
 
Land cover serves different functions for SDG Indicator 15.4.2 : 
 
In sub -indicator 15.4.2a , land cover is used to categorize land into green and non -green cover areas. As 
showed in Table 3, g reen cover includes areas covered by both natural vegetation and vegetation resulting 
from anthropic activity . Non -green areas include  non-vegetated areas such as  bare land , wate r, permanent 
ice/snow, urban areas  and sparsely vegetated areas . In addition, land cover is  used  to disaggregate the 
indicator into  the 10  land cover classes  included in Table 2 , thus increasing the indicator’s policy relevance.  
 
Table 3. Classification of SEEA land cover classes into green and non -green cover.  
SEEA land cover classes  Green/Non -green  
Croplands  Green  
Grasslands  Green  
Tree -covered areas  Green  
Shrub -covered areas  Green  
Shrubs and/or herbaceous vegetation, aquatic or regularly flooded   Green  
Artificial surfaces  Non -green  
Sparsely natural vegetated areas   Non -green  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
   
 Terrestrial barren land  Non -green  
Permanent snow and glaciers  Non -green  
Inland water bodies  Non -green  
 
In sub -indicator 15.4.2b , land cover is used to identify areas where changes in the type of land cover (land 
cover transitions) may indicate a decline or loss of biodiversity, mountain ecosystem functions or  services 
that are considered desirable  in a local or national context. A transition that indicates a decline or loss of 
biodiversity and mountain ecosystem services of the land is considered degradation. The definition of land 
cover transitions  is documented in a transition matrix that specifies the land cover changes occurring in a 
given land unit (pixel) as being either degradation, imp rovement or neutral transitions . 
 
