Definitions:  
Land degradation  is defined as the reduction or loss of the biological or economic productivity and 
complexity of rain fed cropland, irrigated cropland, or range, pasture, forest and woodlands resulting Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
from a combination of pressures, including land use and management pr actices. This definition was 
adopted by and is used by the 196 countries that are Party to the UNCCD.1 (see also Figure 1)  
Land Degradation Neutrality  (LDN) is defined as a state whereby the amount and quality of land 
resources necessary to support ecosys tem functions and services and enhance food security remain 
stable or increase within specified temporal and spatial scales and ecosystems (decision 3/COP12).2 
Total land area  is the total surface area of a country excluding the area covered by inland wat ers, like 
major rivers and lakes.3 
SDG indicator 15.3.1  is a binary - degraded/not degraded - quantification based on the analysis of 
available data for three sub -indicators to be validated and reported by national authorities. The sub -
indicators (Trends in Land Cover, Land Productivity and Carbon Stocks) were adopted by the UNCCD’s 
governing body in 2013 as part of its monitoring and evaluation approach.4  
The method of computation  for this indicator follows the “One Out, All Out” statistical principle and is 
based on the baseline assessment and evaluation of change in the sub -indicators to determine the extent 
of land that is degraded over total land area.  
The One Out, All Out (1OA O)5 principle is applied taking into account changes in the sub -indicators which 
are depicted as (i) positive or improving, (ii) negative or declining, or (iii) stable or unchanging. If one of 
the sub -indicators is negative (or stable when degraded in the  baseline or previous monitoring year) for a 
particular land unit, then it would be considered as degraded subject to validation by national authorities.  
  
The assessment and quantification of land degradation is generally regarded as context -specific, making it 
difficult for a single indicator to fully capture the state or condition of the land. While necessary but not 
sufficient, the sub -indicators address changes in different yet highly relevant ways: for example, land 
cover or produ ctivity trends can capture relatively fast changes while changes in carbon stocks reflect 
slower changes that suggest a trajectory or proximity to thresholds.6  
As proxies to monitor the key factors and driving variables that reflect the capacity to deliv er land -based 
ecosystem services, the sub -indicators are globally agreed upon in definition and methodology of 
calculation, and deemed both technically and economically feasible for systematic observation under 
both the Global Climate Observation System (G COS) and the integrated measurement framework of the 
System of Environmental -Economic Accounting (SEEA). The ultimate determination of the extent of 
degraded land made by national authorities should be contextualized with other indicators, data and 
ground -based information.  
 
1 United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification. 1994. Article 1 of the Convention Text  
http://www2.unccd.int/sites/default/files/relevant -links/2017 -01/UNCCD_Convention_ENG_0.pdf   
2 http://www2.unccd.int/sites/default/files/sessions/documents/ICCD_COP12_20_Add.1/20add1eng.pdf   
3 Food and Agricu lture Organization of the United Nations  
4 By its decision 22/COP.11, the Conference of the Parties established a monitoring and evaluation approach consisting of: 
(a) indicators; (b) a conceptual framework that allows for the integration of indicators; an d (c) indicators sourcing and 
management mechanisms at the national/local level.  
https://www.unccd.int/sites/default/files/sessions/documents/ICCD_ COP11_23_Add.1/23add1eng.pdf   
5 https://circabc.europa.eu /sd/a/06480e87 -27a6 -41e6 -b165 -0581c2b046ad/Guidance%20No%2013%20 -
%20Classification%20of%20Ecological%20Status%20(WG%20A).pdf   
6 https://www.unccd.int/publications/scientific -conceptual -framework -land -degradation -neutrality -report -science -
policy%20  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
An operational definition of land degradation along with a description of the linkages among the sub -
indicators is given in Figure 1.   
Figure 1: Operational definition of land degradation and linkage with the sub -indicators.  
 
Land cover  refers to the observed physical cover of the Earth’s surface which describes the distribution of 
vegetation types, water bodies and human -made infrastructure.7 It also reflects the use of land resources 
(i.e., soil, water and biodiversity) for agric ulture, forestry, human settlements and other purposes.8 This 
sub-indicator serves two functions for SDG indicator 15.3.1: (1) changes in land cover may point to land 
degradation when there is a loss of ecosystem services that are considered desirable in a local or national 
context; and (2) a land cover classification system can be used to disaggregate the other two sub -
indicators, thus increasing the indicator’s policy relevance. This sub -indicator is also expected to be used 
for reporting on SDG indicato rs 6.6.1, 11.3.1 and 15.1.1.  
Land productivity  refers to the total above -ground net primary production (NPP) defined as the energy 
fixed by plants minus their respiration which translates into the rate of biomass accumulation that 
delivers a suite of ecosy stem services.9 This sub -indicator points to changes in the health and productive 
capacity of the land and reflects the net effects of changes in ecosystem functioning on plant and 
biomass growth, where declining trends are often a defining characteristic  of land degradation.10 
 
7 Di Gregorio, A. 2005. Land cover classification system (LC CS): classification concepts and user manual. Food and 
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Rome.  
8 FAO-GTOS. 2009. Land Cover: Assessment of the status of the development of the standards for the Terrestrial Essential 
Climate Variables. Global Terrestrial Observing System, Rome.  
9 Millennium Ecosystem Assessment. 2005. Ecosystems and human wellbeing: a framework for assessment. Island Press, 
Washington, DC.  
10 Joint Research Centre of the European Commission. 2017. World Atlas of Desertification, 3rd edition. JRC, Ispra.  
https://wad.jrc.ec.europa.eu/  
Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
 
Carbon stock  is the quantity of carbon in a “pool”: a reservoir which has the capacity to accumulate or 
release carbon and is comprised of above - and below -ground biomass, dead organic matter, and soil 
organic carbon.11 In UNCCD de cision 22/COP.11, soil organic carbon (SOC) stock  was adopted as the 
metric to be used with the understanding that this metric will be replaced by total terrestrial system 
carbon stocks , once operational. SOC is an indicator of overall soil quality associated with nutrient cycling 
and its aggregate stability and structure with direct implications for water infiltration, soil biodiversity, 
vulnerability to erosion, and ultimately the productivity of vegetation, and in agricultural contexts, yields. 
SOC stocks reflect the balance between organic matter gains, dependent on plant productivity and 
management practices, and losses due to decomposition through the action of soil organisms and 
physical export through leaching and erosion.12 
 
