The new Statistical Performance Indicators (SPI) replaces the Statistical Capacity Index (SCI), which the World Bank has regularly published since 2004. Although the goals are the same, to offer a better tool to measure the statistical systems of countries, the new SPI framework has expanded into new areas including data use, administrative data, geospatial data, data services, and data infrastructure. The SPI provides a framework that can help countries measure where they stand in several dimensions and offers an ambitious measurement agenda for the international community.

The data sources overall score (Pillar 4 score) is a composite measure of whether countries have data available from the following sources: Censuses and surveys, administrative data and geospatial data. The data sources (input) pillar is segmented by the following sources generated by (i) the statistical office (censuses and surveys), and sources accessed from elsewhere such as (ii) administrative data, and (iii) geospatial data. 

The data sources pillar (Pillar 4) covers the following dimensions:
Dimension 4.1: Censuses and Surveys: Availability of recent censuses and surveys covering broad areas. The following censuses and surveys are considered: Population & Housing census, Agriculture census, Business/establishment census, Household Survey on income/ consumption/ expenditure/ budget/ Integrated Survey, Agriculture survey, Labor Force Survey, Health/Demographic survey, Business/establishment survey. Source: NSO websites, World Bank microdata library, ILO microdata library, IHSN microdata library.
Dimension 4.2: Administrative Data: Availability of Civil Registration and Vital Statistics (CRVS) indicator.  A complete CRVS is one type of administrative data system that is well documented based on the United Nations Demographic Yearbook Vital Statistics Questionnaire.
Dimension 4.3: Geospatial Data: Geospatial data available at 1st Admin Level. This data source from Open Data Watch focuses on data availability at the sub-national level and provides a partial understanding of a country’s ability to produce geospatial data. 

The data infrastructure overall score (Pillar 5 score) measures standards and methods addressing compliance with recognized frameworks and concepts.

Standards and Methods: This set of indicators is based on countries’ use of internationally accepted and recommended methodologies, classifications and standards regarding data integration. These indicators help facilitate data exchange and provide the foundation for the preparation of relevant statistical indicators. The following methods and standards are considered: System of national accounts in use, National Accounts base year, Classification of national industry, CPI base year, Classification of household consumption, Classification of status of employment, Central government accounting status, Compilation of government finance statistics, Compilation of monetary and financial statistics, Business process. Further work could improve the validity of this indicator and reduce the risk that countries may be incentivized to adopt only traditional standards and methods and neglect innovative solutions that may be more valid in the current context. 

