Definitions:
Land degradation is defined as the reduction or loss of the biological or economic productivity and complexity of rain fed cropland, irrigated cropland, or range, pasture, forest and woodlands resulting from a combination of pressures, including land use and management practices. This definition was adopted by and is used by the 196 countries that are Party to the UNCCD. (see also Figure 1)
Land Degradation Neutrality (LDN) is defined as a state whereby the amount and quality of land resources necessary to support ecosystem functions and services and enhance food security remain stable or increase within specified temporal and spatial scales and ecosystems (decision 3/COP12).
Total land area is the total surface area of a country excluding the area covered by inland waters, like major rivers and lakes.
SDG indicator 15.3.1 is a binary - degraded/not degraded - quantification based on the analysis of available data for three sub-indicators to be validated and reported by national authorities. The sub-indicators (Trends in Land Cover, Land Productivity and Carbon Stocks) were adopted by the UNCCD’s governing body in 2013 as part of its monitoring and evaluation approach. 
The method of computation for this indicator follows the “One Out, All Out” statistical principle and is based on the baseline assessment and evaluation of change in the sub-indicators to determine the extent of land that is degraded over total land area.
The One Out, All Out (1OAO) principle is applied taking into account changes in the sub-indicators which are depicted as (i) positive or improving, (ii) negative or declining, or (iii) stable or unchanging. If one of the sub-indicators is negative (or stable when degraded in the baseline or previous monitoring year) for a particular land unit, then it would be considered as degraded subject to validation by national authorities.

The assessment and quantification of land degradation is generally regarded as context-specific, making it difficult for a single indicator to fully capture the state or condition of the land. While necessary but not sufficient, the sub-indicators address changes in different yet highly relevant ways: for example, land cover or productivity trends can capture relatively fast changes while changes in carbon stocks reflect slower changes that suggest a trajectory or proximity to thresholds. 
As proxies to monitor the key factors and driving variables that reflect the capacity to deliver land-based ecosystem services, the sub-indicators are globally agreed upon in definition and methodology of calculation, and deemed both technically and economically feasible for systematic observation under both the Global Climate Observation System (GCOS) and the integrated measurement framework of the System of Environmental-Economic Accounting (SEEA). The ultimate determination of the extent of degraded land made by national authorities should be contextualized with other indicators, data and ground-based information.
An operational definition of land degradation along with a description of the linkages among the sub-indicators is given in Figure 1. 
Figure 1: Operational definition of land degradation and linkage with the sub-indicators.

Land cover refers to the observed physical cover of the Earth’s surface which describes the distribution of vegetation types, water bodies and human-made infrastructure. It also reflects the use of land resources (i.e., soil, water and biodiversity) for agriculture, forestry, human settlements and other purposes. This sub-indicator serves two functions for SDG indicator 15.3.1: (1) changes in land cover may point to land degradation when there is a loss of ecosystem services that are considered desirable in a local or national context; and (2) a land cover classification system can be used to disaggregate the other two sub-indicators, thus increasing the indicator’s policy relevance. This sub-indicator is also expected to be used for reporting on SDG indicators 6.6.1, 11.3.1 and 15.1.1.
Land productivity refers to the total above-ground net primary production (NPP) defined as the energy fixed by plants minus their respiration which translates into the rate of biomass accumulation that delivers a suite of ecosystem services. This sub-indicator points to changes in the health and productive capacity of the land and reflects the net effects of changes in ecosystem functioning on plant and biomass growth, where declining trends are often a defining characteristic of land degradation.

Carbon stock is the quantity of carbon in a “pool”: a reservoir which has the capacity to accumulate or release carbon and is comprised of above- and below-ground biomass, dead organic matter, and soil organic carbon. In UNCCD decision 22/COP.11, soil organic carbon (SOC) stock was adopted as the metric to be used with the understanding that this metric will be replaced by total terrestrial system carbon stocks, once operational. SOC is an indicator of overall soil quality associated with nutrient cycling and its aggregate stability and structure with direct implications for water infiltration, soil biodiversity, vulnerability to erosion, and ultimately the productivity of vegetation, and in agricultural contexts, yields. SOC stocks reflect the balance between organic matter gains, dependent on plant productivity and management practices, and losses due to decomposition through the action of soil organisms and physical export through leaching and erosion.

