The indicator measure s the level of national compliance with fundamental rights  at work  (freedom of 
association and collective bargaining, FACB)  for all ILO member states  based on six international ILO 
supervisory body textual sources and also on national legislation. It is bas ed on the coding  of textual 
sources against a list of evaluation criteria and then  converting the coding into indicators.  
 
  
Freedom of association and collective bargaining rights and their supervision  Last updated:  2023-12-15 
The principles of freedom of association and  collective bargaining (FACB) are and have long been at the 
core of the ILO’s normative foundations . The se foundations have been established in the ILO’s 
Constitution (1919), the ILO Declaration of Philadelphia (1944), in two key ILO Conventions (namely th e 
Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention, 1948 (No. 87)  and the Right 
to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949 (No. 98) ) and the ILO Declaration on 
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work (1998). They are also rights proclaimed in the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights (1948) and other international and regional human rights instruments. With 
the adoption of the 1998 ILO Declaration, the promotion and realization of these fundamental principles 
and right s also became a constitutional obligation of all ILO member States.  
 
FACB rights are considered as ‘enabling rights’, the realisation of which is necessary to promote and 
realise other rights at work. They provide an essential foundation for social dialogue, effective labour 
market governance and realization of decent work. They are vital in enabling employers and workers to 
associate and efficiently negotiate work relations, to ensure that both employers and workers have an 
equal voice in negotiatio ns, and that the outcome is fair and equitable. As such they play a crucial role in 
the elaboration of economic and social policies that take on board the interests and needs of all actors in 
the economy. FACB rights are also salient because they are indis pensable pillars of democracy as well as 
the process of democratization.  
 
FACB rights, together with other international labour standards, are backed by the ILO’s unique 
supervisory system. The ILO regularly examines the application of standards in member States and 
highlights areas where those standards are violated and where t hey could be better applied. The ILO’s 
supervisory system includes two kinds of supervisory mechanisms: the regular system of supervision and 
the special procedures. The prior entails the examination of periodic reports submitted by member States 
on the me asures taken to implement the provisions of ILO Conventions ratified by them. The special 
procedures, that is, representations, complaints and the special procedure for complaints regarding 
freedom of association through the Freedom of Association Committe e, allow for the examination of 
violations on the basis of a submission of a representation or a complaint.  
 
