The proportion of youth and adults with Information and Communications Technology (ICT) skills, by type of skill defined as the percentage of individuals that have undertaken certain ICT-related activities in the last 3 months. From 2023, the percentage of individuals that have basic or above-basic ICT skills, by skill area can also be calculated. The indicator is expressed as a percentage. 


The indicator on the proportion of individuals with ICT skills, by type of skills refers to individuals that have undertaken certain activities in the last three months. (Please note however, that until 2019 this data refer to computer-related activities and response categories, as explained below.)

Computer-related activities to measure ICT skills are as follows:
Copying or moving a file or folder
Using copy and paste tools to duplicate or move information within a document
Sending e-mails with attached files (e.g. document, picture, video)
Using basic arithmetic formulas in a spreadsheet
Connecting and installing new devices (e.g. a modem, camera, printer)
Finding, downloading, installing and configuring software
Creating electronic presentations with presentation software (including images, sound, video or charts)
Transferring files between a computer and other devices
Writing a computer program using a specialized programming language

A computer refers to a desktop computer, a laptop (portable) computer or a tablet (or similar handheld computer). It does not include equipment with some embedded computing abilities, such as smart TV sets, and devices with telephony as their primary function, such as smartphones.

Most individuals will have carried out more than one activity and therefore multiple responses are expected. The tasks are broadly ordered from less complex to more complex, although there is no requirement for a respondent to select simpler tasks before selecting a more complex task. 

From 2020, the definition has been expanded to refer to skills irrespective of the device used. From 2023, skills have been organized by areas and additional activities have been added to provide more balance to the assessment of ICT skills.  The current skills categories are:

Information and data literacy
Verifying the reliability of information found online
Getting information about goods or services
Reading or downloading newspapers, magazines or electronic books in a digital format
Seeking health information (on injury, disease, nutrition, etc.)

Communication and collaboration
Sending messages (e.g. e-mail, messaging service, SMS) with attached files (e.g. document, picture, video)
Making calls (Telephoning over the Internet/VoIP, using Skype, Whatsapp, Viber, iTalk, etc.; includes video calls via webcam)
Participating in social networks
Taking part in consultations or voting via the Internet to define civic or political issues

Digital content creation
Using copy and paste tools to duplicate or move data, information and content in digital environments (e.g. within a document, between devices, on the cloud)
Using basic arithmetic formulae in a spreadsheet
Creating electronic presentations with presentation software (including text, images, sound, video or charts)
Programming or coding in digital environments (e.g. computer software, app development)
Using software run over the Internet for editing text documents, spreadsheets or presentations
Uploading self/user-created content to a website to be shared

Problem solving
Connecting and installing new devices (e.g. a modem, camera, printer) through wired or wireless technologies
Finding, downloading, installing and configuring software and apps
Transferring files or applications between devices (including via cloud-storage)
Internet banking
Doing an online course (in any subject)
Purchasing or ordering goods or services

Safety
Setting up effective security measures (e.g. strong passwords, log-in attempt notification) to protect devices and online accounts 
Changing privacy settings on your device, account or app to limit the sharing of personal data and information (e.g. name, contact information, photos)

Aggregate measure of ICT skills
From 2023, additional indicators to provide an overall view of an individual’s level of ICT skills have been added. Countries should assess each individual’s skill level by the above listed skill areas.
Individuals are assessed on the number of activities within a skill area they report having done in the last three months using the following categories:


Skill levels are not assessed in skill areas where fewer than two components of the skill area are collected
Indicators are weighted equally within each skill area.


