Definitions:

The Food Loss Index - Index of the changes in food loss over time covers five food groups along the supply chain. The indicator is computed as a ratio of Food Loss Percentages in the current year and the Food Loss Percentages in the base year according to a standard fixed-base index formula. This indicator complements SDG 12.3.1(b) on Food Waste (which is under the custodianship of UNEP). Both indicators look to divide the food value chain and measure the efficiency of the food system”.. 

Definition of food loss for SDG monitoring:

Food losses - are all the crop and livestock human-edible commodity quantities that, directly or indirectly, completely exit the post-harvest/slaughter production/supply chain  and do not re-enter in any other utilization (such as animal feed, industrial use, etc.), up to, and excluding, the retail level. Losses that occur during storage, transportation, and processing, also of imported quantities, are therefore all included. Losses include the commodity as a whole with its non-edible parts.

 “Completely exit the production/supply chain” means one of the following end destinations: landfill, controlled combustion, sewer, litter/discards/ refuse, co/anaerobic digestion, compost/aerobic digestion or land application.



Food – Food - Any substance—whether processed, semi-processed, or raw—that is intended for human consumption. “Food” includes drink, and any substance that has been used in the manufacture, preparation, or treatment of food. “Food” also includes material that has spoiled and is therefore no longer fit for human consumption. It does not include cosmetics, tobacco, or substances used only as drugs.

Food loss and waste (FLW) – is the decrease in quantity or quality of food. 

Quantitative food loss and waste – is the decrease in mass of food. 
Pre-harvest constitutes the time frame between maturity and harvesting. 

Harvest/slaughter/catch refers to the act of separating the food material from the site of immediate growth or production.

Food Loss Index scope and boundaries

The scope of the Food Loss Index starts on the production site with postharvest/slaughter/catch operations up to but not including the retail level, in line with the Food Balance Sheets conceptual framework.
The index covers five food groups and 10 key commodities set by countries. 
Harvest losses can be included in the index at the country level only. 
Pre-harvest losses are out of scope.
Sub-Indicator 12.3.1(b) Food Waste Index covers food waste at the retail and consumption level.



Figure 1. Boundaries of the food supply chain in the operational definition of the GFLI

