The scope of  indicator 2.4.1 is the agricultural farm holding, and more precisely the agricultural land area 
of the farm holding, i.e. land used primarily to grow crops and raise livestock. This choice of scope is fully 
consistent with the intended use of a country’s agricultural land area as the denominator of the 
aggregate indicator. Specifically,  the following are:  
 
Included within scope:  
• Intensive and extensive crops and livestock production systems.  
• Subsistence agriculture.  
• State and common land when used exclusively and managed by the farm holding.  
• Food and non -food crops and livestock products (e.g. tobacco, cotton, and sheep wool).  
• Crops grown for fodder or for energy purposes.  
• Agro -forestry (trees on the agriculture areas of the farm).  
• Aquaculture, to the extent that it takes place within the agricultural land area. For example, rice -
fish farming and similar systems.  
 
Excluded from scope:  
• State and common land not used exclusively by the farm holding.  
• Nomadic pastoralism.  
• Production from gardens and ba ckyards. Production from hobby farms1. 
• Holdings focusing exclusively on aquaculture.  
 
1 The countries will define hobby farms as per their national criteria and remove these farms from the population of 
interest for 2.4.1 until an international definition is available.   Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
• Holdings focusing exclusively on forestry.  
• Food harvested from the wild.  
 
  
The literature review (Hayati, 2017) identified a large number of potential sustainability themes across 
the three dimensions of sustainability and, for each theme, usually a large number of possible sub -
indicators. The key considerations in the selection of themes are relevance and measurability. In terms of 
relevance, the relati onship between the associated sub -indicator and sustainable agriculture outcomes at 
farm level should be strong. Following this approach, only sub -indicators that are responsive to farm level 
policies aimed at improving sustainable agriculture are consider ed. In terms of measurability, only a 
“core” set of themes and sub -indicators for which measurement and reporting is expected in the majority 
of countries are selected.  
 
A key aspect of all approaches to measuring sustainable agriculture is the recognition  that sustainability is 
a multi -dimensional concept, and that these multiple dimensions need to be reflected in the construction 
of the indicator. This implies that SDG indicator 2.4.1 must be based on a set of sub -indicators that cover 
these three dimensi ons. 
 
Through a consultative process that has lasted over two years, 11 themes and sub -indicators have been 
identified, which make up SDG 2.4.1.  
 
No. Themes  Sub-indicators  
1 Land productivity  Farm output value per hectare  
2 Profitability  Net farm income  
3 Resilience  Risk mitigation mechanisms  
4 Soil health  Prevalence of soil degradation  
5 Water use  Variation in water availability  
6 Fertilizer pollution risk  Management of fertilizers  
7 Pesticide risk  Management of pesticides  
8 Biodiversity  Use of agro -biodiversity -supportive practices  
9 Decent employment  Wage rate in agriculture  
10 Food security  Food Insecurity Experience Scale (FIES)  
11 Land tenure  Secure tenure rights to land  
 
Please see the annex for a detailed description of the sub -indicators.  
 
