Volume of agricultural production of small -scale food producer in crop, livestock, fisheries, and forestry 
activities per number of da ys worked . The indicator is computed as a ratio of annual output to the 
number of working days in one year . As the indicator is referred to a set of production units – those of a 
small scale — the denominator needs to summarize information on the entire pr oduction undertaken in 
each unit. This requires that volumes of production are reported in a common numeraire, given that it is 
impossible to sum up physical units. The most convenient numeraire for aggregating products in the Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
numerator is a vector of cons tant prices. When measured at different points in time, as required by the 
monitoring of the SDG indicators, changes in constant values represent aggregated volume changes.  
 
FAO proposes to define small -scale food producers as producers who:  
• operate an a mount of land falling in the first two quintiles ( the bottom 40 percent) of the 
cumulative distribution of land size at national level (measured in hectares); and  
• operate a number of livestock falling in the first two quintiles ( the bottom 40 percent) of the 
cumulative distribution of the number of livestock per production unit at national level 
(measured in Tropical Livestock Units – TLUs); and  
• obtain an annual economic revenue from agricultural activities falling in the first two quintiles 
(the bottom 4 0 percent) of the cumulative distribution of economic revenues from agricultural 
activities per production unit at national level (measured in Purchasing Power Parity Dollars) not 
exceeding 34,387 Purchasing Power Parity Dollars.  
 
  
• The following concepts are adopted for the computation of indicators 2.3.1:  
• Small -scale food producers are defined as those falling in the intersection of the bottom 40 
percent of the cumulative distribution of land, livestock and revenues.  
• Tropical Livestock Units are a conversion scale used for standardization and measurement of the 
number of livestock heads. One TLU is the metabolic weight equivalent of one cattle in North 
America. The complete list of conversion factors can be found in the Guidelines for th e 
preparation of livestock sector Reviews   
• The concept of productivity is standardized by OECD’s Manual for Measuring Productivity. This 
defines productivity as “a ratio of a volume measure of outputs to a volume measure of input 
use.” More information on  possible definitions can be found in “Productivity and Efficiency 
Measurement in Agriculture: Literature Review and Gaps Analysis”.  
 
