The indicator fixed broadband subscriptions, by speed, refers to the number of fixed -broadband 
subscriptions to the public Internet, broken down by advertised download speed.  
 
 
1 In March 2023, the series description was updated from “ Fixed Internet broadband subscriptions per 100 
inhabitants, by speed ” to “ Fixed broadband subscriptions per 100 inhabitants, by speed ”; content in the 
series is the same.  Last updated: 2024-07-29 
The indicator is currently broken down by the following subscription speeds:  
 
- 256 kbit/s to less than 2 Mbit/s subscriptions: Refers to all fixed broadband Internet subscriptions with 
advertised downstream speeds equal to, or greater than, 256 kbit/s and less than 2 Mbit/s.  
 
- 2 Mbit/s to less than 10 Mbit/s subscriptions: Refers to all fixed -broadband Internet subscriptions with 
advertised downstream speeds equal to, or greater than, 2 Mbit/s an d less than 10 Mbit/s.  
 
- Equal to or above 10 Mbit/s subscriptions (4213_G10). Refers to all fixed -broadband Internet 
subscriptions with advertised downstream speeds equal to, or greater than, 10 Mbit/s.  
 
  
Fixed broadband subscriptions refer to subscriptions to high -speed access to the public Internet (a TCP/IP 
connection), at downstream speeds equal to, or greater than, 256 kbit/s. This includes cable modem, DSL, 
fibre -to-the-home/building, other fixed -broadband subscriptions, satellite broadba nd and terrestrial 
fixed wireless broadband. This total is measured irrespective of the method of payment. It excludes 
subscriptions that have access to data communications (including the Internet) via mobile -cellular 
networks. It should include fixed WiMA X and any other fixed wireless technologies. It includes both 
residential subscriptions and subscriptions for organizations.  
 
The Internet is a worldwide public computer network. It provides access to a number of communication 
services including the World Wide Web and carries e -mail, news, entertainment and data files.  
 
