The indicator refers to the number of countries that have national statistical legislation that complies 
with the Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics. This refers to the number of countries that have a 
statistical legislation which respects the principles of UNFOP.  
 
  
Nationa l statistical legislation: The statistics law defines rules, regulation, measures with regard to the  Last updated: 2018 -02-13 
   
 organization, management, monitoring and inspection of the statistical activities in a systematic way, 
strength, effectiveness and efficiency to assure the  full coverage, accuracy and consistency with facts in 
order to provide reference for policy direction, socio economic planning, and contribute to the  
country’s development to achieve wealth, culture, well -being and equity.  
 
UN Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics  
The Fundamental Principles for Official Statistics adopted by the United Nations Statistical Commission, in 
its Special Session of 11 -15 April 1994 are:  
 
Principle 1. Official statistics provide an indispen sable element in the information system of a society, 
serving the government, the economy and the public with data about the economic, demographic, social 
and environmental situation. To this end, official statistics that meet the test of practical utility  are to be 
compiled and made available on an impartial basis by official statistical agencies to honour citizens’ 
entitlement to public information.  
 
Principle 2. To retain trust in official statistics, the statistical agencies need to decide according to strictly 
professional considerations, including scientific principles and professional ethics, on the methods and 
procedures for the collection, processing, storage and presentation of statistical data.  
 
Principle 3. To facilitate a correct interpretation of the data, the statistical agencies are to present 
information according to scientific standards on the sources, methods and procedures of the statistics.  
 
Principle 4. The statistical agencies are entitled to comment on erroneous interpretation and misu se of 
statistics.  
 
Principle 5. Data for statistical purposes may be drawn from all types of sources, be they statistical 
surveys or administrative records. Statistical agencies are to choose the source with regard to quality, 
timeliness, costs and the bu rden on respondents.  
 
Principle 6. Individual data collected by statistical agencies for statistical compilation, whether they refer 
to natural or legal persons, are to be strictly confidential and used exclusively for statistical purposes.  
 
Principle 7.  The laws, regulations and measures under which the statistical systems operate are to be 
made public.  
 
Principle 8. Coordination among statistical agencies within countries is essential to achieve consistency 
and efficiency in the statistical system.  
 
Principle 9. The use by statistical agencies in each country of international concepts, classifications and 
methods promotes the consistency and efficiency of statistical systems at all official levels.  
 
Principle 10. Bilateral and multilateral cooperation  in statistics contributes to the improvement of 
systems of official statistics in all countries.  
 
