Annual g ross receipts by developing countries of: a. Official sustainable development grants, b. Official 
concessional sustainable development loans, c. Official non -concessional sustainable development loans, d. 
Foreign direct investment, e. Mobilised private finance (MPF) on an experimental basis, and f. Private grants . 
 
a. Official sustainable development grants  
Grants are transfers in cash or in kind for which no legal debt is incurred by the recipient.  
 
b. Official concessional sustainable development loans  
Loans are transfers  in cash or in kind for which the recipient incurs legal debt. A concessional transfer is one 
which gives something of value away. For the purposes of this indicator, a  loan will be regarded as 
concessional if it  embodies at least a 35% grant element when its service payments are discounted at 5% p.a. 
This test is derived from the World Bank -IMF Debt Sustainability Framework for Low Income Count ries and 
has also been adopted in the TOSSD framework . 
See:  
- https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/Policy -Papers/Issues/2018/02/14/pp122617guidance -note -on-
lic-dsf 
- https://www.tossd.org/docs/reporting -instructions.pdf  
 
c. Official non-concessional sustainable development loans  
These are loans (see above) which bear a  grant element of less than 35% when their service payments are 
discounted at 5% p.a.  
 
d. Foreign direct investment  
Foreign direct investment (FDI) is a category of investment that reflects the objective of establishing a lasting 
interest by a resident ent erprise in one economy (direct investor) in an enterprise (direct investment 
enterprise) that is resident in an economy other than that of the direct investor. The lasting interest implies 
the existence of a long -term relationship between the direct invest or and the direct investment enterprise 
and a significant degree of influence on the management of the enterprise. The direct or indirect ownership 
of 10% or more of the voting power of an enterprise resident in one economy by an investor resident in 
anoth er economy is taken as evidence of such a relationship. For OECD Benchmark Definition of Foreign 
Direct Investment - 4th Edition  and UNCTAD work on Foreign Direct Investment Statistics . 
See:  
- https://www.oecd.org/investment/fdibenchmarkdefinition.htm  
- https://unctad.org/topic/investment/investment -statistics -and-trends  
 
This sub -indicator is not restricted to developing countries . 
 
e. Mobilised private finance  (MPF) on an experimental basis  
Mobilised private finance (MPF) consists of private resource flows for activities in developing countries which 
have been mobilised by interventions of multilateral development banks (MDBs), bilateral development 
finance institutions, or other bilateral ag encies , i.e. where a direct causal link between the official 
intervention and the private resources can be demonstrated.  The OECD method for counting  MPF is used ; Last updated:  2024 -03-28 
see https://www.oecd.org/dac/financing -sustainable -development/development -finance -
standards/mobilisation.htm . MPF  is a “memorandum item” because it would likely include and overlap with 
some fi nance that would also be found in the FDI sub -indicator. MPF data are typically collected on a 
commitment basis, rather than in terms of developing country receipts. This indicator excludes private flows 
mobilised in recipient countries themselves as they do not constitute additional resources.  The indicator is 
included on an experimental basis, and it is recommended that it be reviewed during the 2025 review of SDG 
indicators.  
 
f. Private grants  
Private grants are here taken to mean grants for developmenta l purposes from private institutions outside 
the recipient country, excluding commercial flows and personal transactions such as remittances. They 
essentially comprise grants from philanthropic foundations and other non -governmental organizations.  
 
Sustain able development criteria  
 
Based on the Group’s discussions, and building on the work of the TOSSD Task Force, the following cascading 
approach will be used to identify flows that can be considered as supporting sustainable development:  
1. Flows within the  proposed indicators and sub -indicators detailed below and identified individually, such as 
a specific activity in provider reporting systems, should be included if they directly support either (i) at least 
one of the SDG targets or (ii) an objective in th e recipient country’s development plan as long as this is 
directed towards supporting or achieving sustainable development, with the following exceptions:  
a. Flows for activities where a substantial detrimental effect is anticipated on one or more of the o ther 
targets.  
b. Flows where the recipient country, after discussion with the custodian agency and/or the reporting 
provider country, objects to their characterization as supporting its sustainable development.  
2. Flows, or portions of flows within the proposed indicators and sub -indicators detailed below for which data 
are only available at the aggregate country -to-country level are also considered as supporting sustainable 
development, subject to the same exceptions as under 1.a and 1.b.  
 
Note that  some sub -indicators may contain a mixture of activity -specific and aggregate -level flow data and 
therefore require assessment against 1 and 2 respectively. Also note that further specific exclusions are 
proposed, as detailed below, that may in some cases be considered to reinforce the focus of the proposed 
indicators on the sustainable development of developing countries.  
 
