The precise definition of the indicator is the Proportion of domestic budgetary central government 
expenditure funded by taxes. Budgetary central government, described in  the Government Finance 
Statistics Manual ( GFSM ) 2014 (paragraph 2.81) is an institutional unit of the general government sector 
particularly important in terms of size and power, particularly the power to exercise control over many 
other units and entities. Th e budgetary central government is often a single unit of the central 
government that encompasses the fundamental activities of the national executive, legislative, and 
judiciary powers. This component of general government is usually covered by the main (o r general) 
budget.  
 Last updated:  2023 -12-15 
The budgetary central government’s revenue (and expense) are normally regulated and controlled by a 
ministry of finance, or its functional equivalent, by means of a budget approved by the legislature. Most 
of the ministries, department s, agencies, boards, commissions, judicial authorities, legislative bodies, and 
other entities that make up the budgetary central government are not separate institutional units. This is 
because they generally do not have the authority to own assets, incur  liabilities, or engage in transactions 
in their own right (see GFSM 2014 paragraph 2.42).  including references to standards and classifications, 
preferably relying on international agreed definitions. The indicator definition should be unambiguous 
and ex pressed in universally applicable terms. It must clearly express the unit of measurement 
(proportion, dollars, number of people, etc.).  
 
  
The key concepts and terms associated with the indicator are outlined in GFSM 2014, as are the 
associated cla ssifications. Revenue is defined in Chapter 4 (paragraph 4.23) and the associated 
classifications are detailed in Chapter 5. Expenditure is also defined in Chapter 4 (paragraph 4.21) while 
the associated detailed classifications and concepts used for calcu lating this aggregate are outlined in 
Chapter 6 - 8. 
 
