1. External Sector  
Indicators for the current and capital & financial accounts are included to monitor each co untry's trade and 
balance of payme nts.  The sustainability of the balance of payments depends on both the current account 
and the capital and financial account balances, including foreign reserves.  
 
Current Account:  The current account balance is an import ant indicator of an economy 's health. It is 
defined as the sum of the resource balance (exports less imports of goods and services), net primary 
income and secondary income. In addition, the dashboard includes indicators such as merchandise trade 
as a shar e of GDP to monitor the trade openness of the country and data on personal remittances, which 
have become an important integral part of many developing economies, since any changes to these flows 
may have a major impact on developing countries ' current acc ount balances  (defined as the savings -
investment gap for an economy ). 
 
Capital and Financial Accounts:  Data on capital and f inancial flows are key for monitoring vulnerability to 
shocks  and constraints on fiscal and monetary polic ies. Financing trade deficits or other current imbalances 
through capital and financial flows  is a reasonable way to achieve consumption smoothing of emerging 
economies . FDI equity  is a preferred method of financing  external current account deficits since these  flows 
are non–debt–creating.  Portfolio investment inflows measure the exposure of foreign investors to 
developing country bond and equity markets.   
 
External indebtedness affects a country's creditworthiness and investor perceptions. Nonreporting 
countries might have outstanding debt s with the World Bank, other international financial institutions, or 
private creditors. Total debt service is contrasted with countries' ability to obtain foreign exchange through  
exports of goods, services, primary income, and personal remittances. Debt ratios are used to assess the 
sustainability of a country's debt service obligations, but no absolute rules determine what values are too 
high.  
 Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
Exchange Rates:   Sharp devaluation s are usually associated with significant declines in equity markets, 
capital flows, and reserves. The dashboard will present official average exchange rates.  
 
(1) Merchandise trade as a proportion of GDP (%)  
This indicator is used as measurement for the Trade Openness of a country. Merchandise trade as a share 
of GDP is the sum of merchandise exports and imports divided by the value of GDP.  
 
(2) Personal remittances, received, as a proportion of GDP (%)  
Comprise personal transfers and compensation of employee s, as defined in the sixth edition of the IMF's 
Balance of Payments Manual. Personal transfers consist of all current transfers in cash or in kind made or 
received by resident households to or from non-resident  households. Personal transfers thus include a ll 
current transfers between resident and non-resident  individuals. Compensation of employees refers to the 
income of border, seasonal, and other short -term workers who are employed in an economy where they 
are not resident and of residents employed by non-resident  entities.  
 
(3) Current account balance as a proportion of GDP (%)  
Current account balance is the sum of net exports of goods and services, net primary income, and net 
secondary income.  
 
(4) Foreign direct investment, net inflows, as a proportion of GDP (%)  
Comprises the net inflows of foreign direct investment to acquire a lasting management interest (10 
percent or more of voting stock) in an enterprise operating in an economy other than that of the investor. 
FDI is the sum of equity capital, reinvestment of earnings, other long -term capital, and short -term capital 
as shown in the balance of payments. This series shows net inflows (new investment inflows less 
disinvestment) in the reporting economy from foreign investors and is divided by GDP.  
 
(5) Portfolio investment, net (BoP, current US$)  
Portfolio investment covers transacti ons in equity securities and debt securities. Data are in current U S 
dollars.  
 
(6) Total reserves in months of imports  
Total reserves comprise holdings of monetary gold, special drawing rights, reserves of IMF members held 
by the IMF, and holdings of foreign exchange under the control of monetary authorities. The gold 
component of these reserves is valued at year -end (December 31) London prices. This item shows reserves 
expressed in terms of the number of months of imports of goods and services they could pay for 
[Reserves/(Imports/12)].  
 
(7) External debt stocks as a proportion of GNI (%)  
Total external debt is debt owed to non -residents repayable in currency, goods, or services. Total external 
debt is the sum of public, publicly guaranteed, and private nonguarant eed long -term debt, use of IMF 
credit, and short -term debt. Short -term debt includes all debt having an original maturity of one year or 
less and interest in arrears on long -term debt. GNI (formerly GNP) is the sum of value added by all resident 
producers plus any product taxes (less subsidies) not included in the valuation of output plus net receipts 
of primary income (compensation of employees and property income) from abroad.  
 
(8) Debt service (PPG and IMF only, % of exports of goods, services and primary in come)  Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
Debt service is the sum of principle repayments and interest actually paid in currency, goods, or services. 
This series differs from the standard debt to exports series. It covers only long -term public and publicly 
guaranteed debt and repayments (repurchases and charges) to the IMF. Data for Heavily Indebted Poor 
Countries (HIPC) are from HIPC Initiative's Status of Implementation Report.   
 
(9) DEC alternative conversion factor (LCU per US$)  
The DEC alternative conversion factor is the underlying annual exchange rate used for the World Bank Atlas 
method. As a rule, it is the official exchange rate reported in the IMF's International Financial Statistics (line 
rf). Exceptions arise where further refinements are made by World Bank staff. I t is expressed in local 
currency units per U S dollar.  
 
2. Fiscal Sector  
For a sustainable economic growth path, a country needs a sustainable fiscal policy. The dashboard 
monitors government revenues , fiscal balance, and public debt as a share of GDP  to inform policy -decision 
making .  
 
(1) Tax revenue as a proportion of GDP (%)  
Tax revenue refers to compulsory transfers to the central government for public purposes. Certain 
compulsory transfers such as fines, penalties, and most social security contributions ar e excluded. Refunds 
and corrections of erroneously collected tax revenue are treated as negative revenue.  
 
(2) Cash surplus/deficit as a proportion of GDP (%)  
Cash surplus or deficit is revenue (including grants) minus expense, minus net acquisition of nonfinancial 
assets. In the 1986 GFS manual nonfinancial assets were included under revenue and expenditure in gross 
terms. This cash surplus or deficit is closest to the earlier overall budget balance (still missing is lending 
minus repayme nts, which are now a financing item under net acquisition of financial assets).  
 
(3) Gross PSD, Central Gov. -D2, All maturities, D1+ SDRs + currency and deposits, Nominal Value, as a 
proportion of GDP (%)  
The D2 coverage of instruments according to this classi fication includes (1) debt securities, (2) loans, (3) 
special drawing rights and (4) currency and deposits as percentage of GDP.  
 
3. Real Sector  
GDP measures the nation 's total output of goods and services. For many decades, it has been a 
comprehensive measure of market activity used for a wide variety of analytical purposes such as measuring 
productivity, conducting monetary policy, and projecting tax revenues. In this section, we monitor growth 
trends of GDP; Gross capital formation; Expo rts of goods and services; Imports of goods and services; 
Household consumption; Government consumption ; and Consumer Price Index  to monitor the price 
trends.  
 
(1) Annual GDP growth (%)  
GDP is the sum of gross value added by all resident producers in the econo my plus any product taxes and 
minus any subsidies not included in the value of the products. It is calculated without making deductions 
for depreciation of fabricated assets or for depletion and degradation of natural resources . 
 
(2) Annual growth of the gross  capital formation (%)  Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
Gross capital formation (formerly gross domestic investment) consists of outlays on additions to the fixed 
assets of the economy plus net changes in the level of inventories. Fixed assets include dwellings, other 
buildings and structures (inc luding land improvements ),  machinery and equipment , weapons systems , 
cultivated biological resources, and intellectual property products (R&D, mineral exploration, software, 
etc.) . Inventories are stocks of goods held by firms to meet tempo rary or unexpected fluctuations in 
production or sales, and "work in progress." According to the 2008 SNA, net acquisitions of valuables are 
also considered capital formation.  
 
(3) Annual growth of households and NPISHs final consumption expenditure (%)  
House hold final consumption expenditure (formerly private consumption) is the market value of all goods 
and services, including durable products (such as cars, washing machines, and home computers), 
purchased by households. It excludes purchases of dwellings bu t includes imputed rent for owner -occupied 
dwellings. It also includes payments and fees to governments to obtain permits and licenses. In WDI, 
household consumption expenditure includes the expenditures of non-profit  institutions serving 
households, even when reported separately by the country.  
 
(4) Annual growth of the general government final consumption expenditure (%)  
General government final consumption expenditure (formerly general government consumption) includes 
all government current expenditures for  purchases of goods and services (including compensation of 
employees  and consumption of fixed capital ).  
 
(5) Annual growth of exports of goods and services (%)  
Exports of goods and services represent the value of all goods and other market services provided to the 
rest of the world. They include the value of merchandise, freight, insurance, transport, travel, royalties, 
license fees, and other services, such as communication, construction, financial, information, business, 
personal, and government services.  
 
(6) Annual growth of imports of goods and services (%)  
Imports of goods and services represent the value of all goods and other market services received from the 
rest of the world. They include the value of merchandise, freight, insurance, transport, travel, royalties, 
license fees, and other services, such as communication, construction, financial, information, business, 
personal, and government services.  
 
(7) Annual inflation, consumer prices (%)  
Consumer price index reflects changes in the cost to the average consumer of acquiring a basket of goods 
and services that may be fixed or changed at specified intervals, such as yearly. The Laspeyres formula is 
generally used. Data are period averages.  
 
4. Financial Sector  
Financial sector indicators are essential for measuring countries ' financial market stability and  economic 
stability. Stronger financial institutions play a signific ant role in a country 's economic performance . The 
strength of th ose institutions is measured through the following indicato rs.  
 
(1) Bank capital to assets ratio (%)  
Bank capital to assets is the ratio of bank capital and reserves to total assets. Capital and reserves include 
funds contributed by owners, retained earnings, general and special reserves, provisions, and valuation 
adjustments. Capital consists of tier 1 c apital (paid -up shares and common stock), which is a common Last updated:  2021 -12-20 
feature in all countries' banking systems, and total regulatory capital, which includes several specified types 
of subordinated debt instruments that need not be repaid if the funds are required t o maintain minimum 
capital levels (these comprise tier 2 and tier 3 capital). Total assets include all nonfinancial and financial 
assets.  
 
(2) Bank nonperforming loans to total gross loans (%)  
Bank nonperforming loans to total gross loans is the value of nonp erforming loans divided by the total 
value of the loan portfolio (including nonperforming loans before the deduction of specific loan -loss 
provisions). The loan amount recorded as nonperforming should be the gross value of the loan as recorded 
on the balan ce sheet, not just the amount that is overdue.  
 
(3) Annual broad money growth (%)  
Broad money is the sum of currency outside banks; demand deposits other than those of the central 
government; the time, savings, and foreign currency deposits of resident sector s other than the central 
government; bank and traveler 's checks; and other securities such as certificates of deposit and commercial 
paper.  
 
(4) Broad money to total reserves ratio  
Broad money (IFS line 35L..  ZK) is the sum of currency outside banks; demand deposits other than those of 
the central government; the time, savings, and foreign currency deposits of resident sectors other than the 
central government; bank and traveler 's checks; and other securities suc h as certificates of deposit and 
commercial paper.  
 
5. Unemployment  
Trends in unemployment rate data are a v ital indicator for analyzing  the long -term economic development 
of a country  (SDG 8.5.2 ). Stronger and sustainable economic growth often result s in lower unemployment 
rates.  
 
Total unemployment out of total labor force (national estimate) (%)  
Unemployment refers to the share of the labor force that is without work but available for and seeking  
employment. Definitions of the labor force and unemployment differ by country.  
 
