This indicator measures the extent to which, and the ways in which, all concerned development partners 
use country -owned  results frameworks (CRFs) to plan development cooperation efforts and assess their 
performance.  
 
The indicator assesses the degree to which providers of development cooperation (i.e. development 
partners) design their interventions by relying on objecti ves and results indicators that are drawn from 
country government -owned  results frameworks reflecting the country’s development priorities and 
goals.  
 
  
Country -owned  results frameworks (CRFs) define a country’s approach to results and its associ ated 
monitoring and evaluation systems focusing on performance and achievement of development results. 
Using a minimal definition, these results frameworks include agreed objectives and results indicators (i.e. 
output, outcome, and/or impact). They also se t targets to measure progress in achieving the objectives 
defined in the government’s planning documents.  
The definition of country -owned  results framework used for this indicator allows the possibility to use 
equivalent priority -setting mechanisms at the  country level since not all countries articulate their 
priorities through consistent, integrated CRFs.  
 
In practice, country -owned  results frameworks defined at the country level are often broadly stated (e.g. 
long -term vision plans, national development strategies) and operationalised in more detail at the sector 
level (e.g. sector strategies), where specific targets and indicators are set for a given timeframe.  
 
Some examples of CRFs are long -term vision plans; national development strategies; joint gove rnment -
multi -donor plans; government’s sector strategies, policies and plans; subnational planning instruments, 
as well as other frameworks (e.g. budget support performance matrices  & sector -wide approaches). In 
contrast, planning and priority setting documents produced outside the government, such as country 
strategies prepared by development partners, are not considered CRFs.  
 
