For the purpose of  this methodology ‘policy coherence of sustainable development’ has been interpreted 
as the coherence between policies in general that cover the dimensions of sustainable development.  This 
indicator is a composite indicator which covers mechanisms related to:  
1. Institutionalization of Political Commitment   
2. Long -term considerations in decision -making  
3. Inter -ministerial and cross -sectoral coordination   
4. Participatory processes  
5. Policy linkages  
6. Alignment across government levels  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
7. Monitoring and reporting for policy coherence  
8. Financing for policy coherence  
 
  
Scope of “Sustainable Development” : For the purpose of this methodology ‘policy coherence of sustainable 
development’ has been interpreted as the coherence between policies in general that cover the 
dimensions of sustainable development, rather than adopting a narrower definition of mechanis ms put in 
place to support the coherent implementation of Agenda 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals 
(SDGs ), so as to promote coherent policy for sustainable development well beyond the current agenda’s 
timeframe. The policy coherence mechanisms set  out in this methodology may therefore include 
mechanisms already in place before the adoption of the 2030 Agenda in 2015, and any mechanisms 
established during the next decade leading up to 2030 should aim to continue well beyond that timeframe. 
However, given the role of Agenda 2030 and the individual goals in defining the specific parameters of 
sustainable development, it is likely that governments will focus, in implementing this methodology, on 
bringing coherence in their policy approaches to implement  the goals.  
 
The concept of Policy Coherence: The textual formulation of the indicator covers “policy coherence”. In 
order to make the indicator universally applicable and adaptable to various national contexts, the 
mechanisms measured by the methodology cover a wide range of mechanisms that, although aiming to 
achieve the same objective, use slightly different language. In order to properly assess and report on this 
indicator , similar concepts such as “whole of government approach or “integrated approach”  will be 
interpreted in the same spirit as the concept of “policy coherence”. However, it is important that the used 
concept considers policies that cover the various dimensions of sustainable development. Hence, a 
mechanism focusing solely on the concept of policy coherence for development (which is often limited to 
coherence between Official Development Assistance (ODA) and other policies, in the spirit of the 
Millennium Development Goals) will not be considered by this framework.   
 
