The following f ive series are used to monitor the SDG 1.2.2.  
1) Official multidimensional poverty headcount, by sex, and age (% of population)  
- The percentage of people who are multidimensionally poor  Last updated:  2024-03-28 
2) Average share of weighted deprivations (intensity)  for total populatio n 
- The average share of weighted dimensions  in which poor people are deprived  among total 
population   
3) Official multidimensional poverty headcount (% of total households)  
- The percentage of households who are multidimensionally poor  
4)            Average share of weighted deprivations (intensity) for total households  
- The average share of weighted dimensions in which poor people are deprived among total 
households   
5) Multidimensional deprivation for children (% of population under 18)  
- The percentage of ch ildren who are simultaneously deprived in multiple material dimensions  
  
The design of a measure of multidimensional poverty is different in each country, but regardless of the 
exact methodology selected, it still follows a similar process to defi ne the features of the measure, which 
include: i) the purpose of the measure; ii) the unit of identification (most frequently either the household 
or the individuals); iii) the dimensions and respective indicators that delimit which deprivations should be 
measured; iv) the methodology for developing the measure (including deprivation cut -offs, weights, and 
poverty cut -offs).  
 
The most commonly used method is the Alkire Foster (AF) methodology which identifies dimensions, 
typically health, education and livi ng standards and several indicators in each dimension. The unit of 
analysis could be either the individual or the household. The individuals or households are considered as 
multidimensionally poor if they are deprived in multiple dimensions, exceeding cert ain thresholds.  
 
EU Member States , Island, Norway, Albania, Kosovo, North Macedonia , Montenegro  and Turkey have a 
different approach to measure the multidimensional poverty using the concept of "people at risk of poverty 
or social exclusion" (AROPE) calcu lated by EUROSTAT using the data from EU statistics on income and living 
conditions (EU -SILC). AROPE consists of three components , and individuals are considered as "at risk of 
poverty or social exclusion" if they are "at risk of poverty" or "severely mate rially and socially deprived" or 
"living in a household with a very low work intensity". 1 
 
There is a multidimensional poverty measure specifically designed for children. A child is considered 
multidimensionally poor if s/he is simultaneously deprived in multiple dimensions. It identifies the 
dimensions of poverty and the indicators under each d imension, and has a similar structure to the AF 
methodology. However, it is different in that it focuses on the life -cycle of children, creating different sets 
of dimensions and indicators for different age groups (e.g., for ages 0 -4, 5-11, 12 -14, 15 -17 ye ars), and 
conducts analyses separately for each age group. In the global SDG database, the multidimensional poverty 
headcount (%) for the overall 0 -17 age group has been used for countries reporting individual measures of 
child multidimensional poverty.  
 
