As agreed by the Inter -agency and Expert Group on SDG Indicators (IAEG -SDGs), data for the 
education co mponent only  of indicator 1.a.2 are provided by two custodian agencies (co -custodians 
IMF and UNESCO -UIS) to provide maximum country coverage. Therefore, the Global SDG Indicators 
Database includes two distinct data series for the education component, supp lied by these different 
data providers (the co -custodians). Each provider employs unique data collection and calculation Last updated:  2024-06-28 
methods. Consequently, variations may arise when comparing the datasets: SG_XPD_EDUC (provided 
by IMF as part of a set that contains al l  components of indicator 1.a.2 and the total) and 
SD_XPD_ESED (provided by UNESCO -UIS for the education component only). To gain insight into the 
methodologies used by each provider, please review the additional metadata file associated with 
indicator 1. a.2. 
 
  
Expenditure  is defined in Chapter 4 (paragraph s 4.24 and 6.1 ) of the Government Finance Statistics 
Manual 2014  (GFSM 2014 ) as a decrease in net worth resulting from a transaction. It is a fiscal indicator 
for assessing the sustainability of fiscal activities. The GFSM 2014  presents expense according to the 
economic classification (paragraphs 6.8 -6.11) and as functions of government ( paragraphs 6.126 -6.132). 
General government units have ten distinct types of expense according to functions of governme nt. 
Among them there are expense on health (code 707), on education (code 709) and on social protection 
(code 710).  
 
  
The key concepts and terms associated with the indicator are outlined in Government Finance Statistics 
Manual  (GFSM ) 2014 , as are the associated classifications. As stated in paragraph 6.126, th e Classification 
of Functions of Government  (COFOG) is a detai led classification of the  functions, or socioeconomic 
objectives, that general  government units aim to achieve through various  kinds of expenditure.  While the 
COFOG as used in  the GFSM 2014  fully agrees with the The Organisation for Economic Co -operation and 
Development  (OECD )/UN classification, the  concept is applied slightly differently in government finance 
statistics ( GFS). Final  outlays are referred to in a general sense by the OECD/UN, and therefore include 
grants, loans, and/or subsidies.  In GFS, COFOG is applied only to expenditure,  comprising expense and 
the net investment in nonfinancial assets. Transactions in financial assets and  liabilities, such as loans, are 
excluded when compiling  COFOG data for GFS re porting purposes.  
Government expenditure on health includes expenditure on services provided to individual persons  and 
services provided on a collective basis. Collective health services are concerned with  matters such as 
formulation and administration  of government policy; setting and enforcement of  standards for medical 
and paramedical personnel  and for hospitals, clinics, surgeries, etc.; regulation  and licensing of providers 
of health services; and applied  research and experimental development into  medi cal and health -related 
matters. However, overhead  expenditure connected with administration or  functioning of a group of 
hospitals, clinics, surgeries,  etc. is considered to be individual expenditure . 
Government expenditure on education  includes expenditure  on services provided to individual pupils  and 
students and expenditure on services provided on  a collective basis.  Collective educational services are 
concerned with  matters such as formulation and administration of  government policy; setting a nd 
enforcement of standards;  regulation, licensing, and supervision of educational  establishments; and 
applied research and  experimental development into education affairs and  services. However, overhead 
expenditure connected  with administration or functio ning of a group of  schools, colleges, etc. is 
considered to be individual  expenditure . 
Government expenditure on social protection includes  expenditure on services and transfers provided  to 
individual persons and households and expenditure  on services provided on a collective basis.  Collective 
social protection services are concerned  with matters such as formulation and administration  of 
government policy; formulation and enforcement  of legislation and standards for providing social 
protection;  and applied research and experimental development  into social protection affairs and 
services.  Expenditure  on individual services and transfers are allocated  to sickness and disability, old age, 
survivors, family and children, unemployment, housing and so cial exclusion.  Last updated:  2024-06-28 
