)  
Definition : 
The p roportion of population living in households with  access to basic services is defined as the proportion 
of population using public service provision systems that meet basic human needs including drinking water, 
sanitation , hygiene, energy, mobility, waste collection, health care, education and informatio n 
technologies.  The basic services indicator is therefore  based on 9 components. These  components are 
captured in various standalone indicators of the SDGs , which means that the concepts and definitions of 
SDG indicator 1.4.1 will be derived from or are the same as those of these specific SDG indicators.  
 
  Last updated:  2023 -07-18 
The term  ‘access to basic services ’ implies that sufficient and affordable service is reliably available with 
adequate quality.  
 
1) Access to Basic Drinking Water Services  refers to the use of drinking water from an improved 
source with a collection time of not more than 30 minutes for a round  trip, including queuing. 
‘Improved’  drinking water sources include the following: : piped water, boreholes or tube wells, 
protected dug wells, protected springs, rainwater, water kiosks, and packaged or delivered water. 
This definition is based  on the WHO /UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme ( JMP) drinking water  
ladder  and is the foundation for SDG indicator 6.1. 1 - Proportion of population using safely 
managed drinking water services1.  
 
2) Access to Basic Sanitation Services  refers to the use of improved facilities that are not shared with 
other households . An ‘improved sanitation facility’ is defined as one designed to hygienically 
separate human excreta from human contact. Improved sanitation facilities include wet sanitati on 
technologies such as flush or pour flush toilets connected to sewer systems, septic tanks or pit 
latrines; and dry sanitation technologies such as dry pit latrines with slabs (constructed from 
materials that are durable and easy to clean), ventilated im proved pit (VIP) latrines, pit latrines 
with a slab, composting toilets and container -based  sanitation. If a household uses a flush or pour 
flush toilet but does not know where it is flushed to, the sanitation facility is considered to be 
improved since th e household may not be aware about whether it flushes to a sewer, septic tank 
or pit latrine. This definition is based  on the JMP sanitation ladder  and is the foundation for SDG 
indicator 6. 2.1a - Proportion of population using safely managed sanitation se rvices 2.  
 
3) Access to Basic Hygiene Facilities  refers to availability of a handwashing facility with soap and 
water  at home . Handwashing facilities may be located within  the dwelling, yard or plot. 
Handwashing facilities may be fixed or mobile and include  a sink with tap water, buckets with taps, 
tippy -taps, and jugs or basins designated for handwashing. Soap includes bar soap, liquid soap, 
powder detergent, and soapy water but does not include ash, soil, sand or other handwashing 
agents.  This definition is based  on the JMP hygiene ladder  and is the foundation for SDG indicator 
6.2.1b - Proportion of population  with handwashing facilit ies with soap and water  available at 
home3.  
 
For many low and middle -income countries, achieving universal access to basic drinking water, sanitation 
and hygiene remains a high priority, which will help them achieve access to ‘safely managed services’, the 
target for SDG  target s 6.1 and 6.2.  
 
4) Access to clean fuels and technology  refers to use of fuels and technology tha t are defined by the 
emission rate targets and specific fuel recommendations ( i.e., against unprocessed coal and 
kerosene) included in the normative guidance WHO guidelines for indoor air quality: household 
fuel combustion.  This component will be captured through SDG 7.1.2 - Percentage of population 
with primary reliance on clean fuels and technology . 
 
5) Access to Basic Mobility refers to having convenient access to transport  in a rural context (SDG 
9.1.1) or having convenient access to public transport in an  urban context (SDG 11.2.1).   
 
1 https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/metadata/files/Metadata -06-01-01.docx  
2 https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/metadata/files/Metadata -06-02-01a.docx  
3 https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/metadata/files/Metadata -06-02-01b.docx  Last updated:  2023 -07-18 
• Access to mobility rural context  
To eradicate poverty, communities need to be connected to socio -economic opportunities by 
roads that are pa ssable all season and attract reliable and affordable public transport services. 
In many areas, safe footpaths, footbridges and waterways may be required in conjunction 
with, or as an alternative, to roads. For reasons of simplification, specific emphasis was given 
to roads in this definition (based on the Rural Access Index - RAI - percentage of the population 
<2km from an all -season road (equivalent to a walk of 20 -25 mins)4)5 since road transport 
reflects accessibility for the great majority of people in rural contexts. In those situations 
where another mode, such as water transport is dominant the definition will be modified and 
contextualized to reflect and capture those aspects.  
Access to mobility has shown some of the largest impacts on poverty reduction and has a 
strong correlation to educational, economic and health outcomes (“transport as an enabler”).    
RAI is the most widely accepted metric for tracking access to transport in rural areas and has 
been included in the SDGs as  SDG indicator 9.1.1 - Proportion of the rural population who live 
within 2  km of an all -season road.  This component will be therefore captured through SDG 
9.1.1.  
The existing RAI methodology relies on hou sehold level survey data – however, is currently 
being revised into a GIS -based index that exploits advances in digital technology with the aim 
to create a more accurate and cost -effective tool.   
 
• Access to mobility urban context  
The urban context of acces s to transport is measured utilizing the methodology of SDG 11.2.1 
–Proportion of the population that has convenient access to public transport by sex, age and 
persons with disabilities .  
 
The metadata methodology6 is available (UN -Habi tat being the custodian agency) . City 
delimit ation is conducted to identify the urban area which will act as the spatial analysis scope 
as inventory of available public stops in the service areas  is collected . Identification of 
popula tion served by available street  network allows  for measure ment 500m and/or 1km  
walkable distance to nearest stop (“service area”) . We know that measuring spatial access is 
not sufficient and does not address the temporal dimension associated with the avail ability of 
public transport. Complementary to the above, other parameters of tracking the transport 
target related to street density/no. of intersections, affordability, or quality in terms of safety, 
travel time, universal access, are all tracked.  
 
6) Acces s to Basic Waste Collection Services refers to the access that the population have to a 
reliable waste collection service, including both formal municipal and informal sector services. This 
is connected to and will be captured through SDG Indicator 11.6.1  - Proportion of municipal solid 
waste collected and managed in controlled facilities out of total municipal waste generated, by 
cities . A ‘collection service’ may be ‘door to door’ or by deposit into a community container. 
‘Collection’ includes collection for recycling as well as for treatment and disposal (includes e.g.,  
collection of recyclables by itinerant waste buyers). ‘Reliable’ mea ns regular - frequency will 
depend on local conditions and on any pre -separation of the waste. For example, both mixed 
 
4 https://www.ssatp.org/sites/ssatp/files/publications/HTML/Gender -RG/index.html  
5 http://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/transport/brief/connections -note -23  
6 https://unstats. un.org/sdgs/metadata/files/Metadata -11-02-01.pdf  Last updated:  2023 -07-18 
waste and organic waste are often collected daily in tropical climates for public health reasons, 
and generally at least weekly; source -separated dry recyclables may be collected less frequently.  
 
7) Access to Basic Health Care Services  refers to access to services that cover in and out -of-area 
emergency services, in -patient hospital and physician care, outpatient medical services, laboratory 
and radiology services, and preventive health services. Basic health care services also extend to 
access to limited treatment of mental illness and substance abuse in accordance with minimum 
standards prescribed by local and national ministries of health.  This is connected to and will be 
measured through SDG indicator 3.8.1 – Coverage of essential hea lth services . 
 
8) Access  to Basic Education  refers to access to education services that provides all learners with 
capabilities they require to become economicall y productive, develop sustainable livelihoods, 
contribute to peaceful and democratic societies and enhance individual well -being.  This is 
connected to and will be captured through SDG 4.1.1 - Proportion of children and young people (a) 
in grades 2/3; (b) a t the end of primary; and (c) at the end of lower secondary achieving at least a 
minimum proficiency level in (i) reading and (ii) mathematics, by sex .   
 
9) Access to Basic Information Services  refers to having a broadband internet access. Broadband is 
defined as technologies that deliver advertised download speeds of at least 256 kbit/s. Connecting 
the 50% of the world that is still offline means, in large part, ensuring that everyone, everywher e 
is able to access an internet that is affordable.  The main types of broadband services are: 1) Fixed 
(wired) broadband network, such as DSL, cable modem, high speed leased lines, fibre to -the-
home/building, powerline and other fixed (wired) broadband; 2)  Terrestrial fixed (wireless) 
broadband network, such as WiMAX, fixed CDMA; 3) Satellite broadband network (via a satellite 
connection); 4) Mobile broadband network (at least 3G, e.g. UMTS) via a handset and 5) Mobile 
broadband network (at least 3G, e.g. U MTS) via a card (e.g. integrated SIM card in a computer) or 
USB modem.  This is connected to  and will be captured through SDG  9.c.1 - Proportion of population 
covered by a mobile network, by technology . 
 
