The indicator “proportion of the population below the international poverty line” is defined as the 
percentage of the population living on less than $ 2.15 a day at 201 7 international prices.  
 
  
In assessing poverty in a given  country, and how best to reduce poverty, one naturally focuses on a 
poverty line that is considered appropriate for that country. But how do we talk meaningfully about Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
“global poverty?” Poverty lines across countries vary in terms of their purchasing powe r, and they have a 
strong economic gradient, such that richer countries tend to adopt higher standards of living in defining 
poverty. But to consistently measure global absolute poverty in terms of consumption we need to treat 
two people with the same purc hasing power over commodities the same way —both are either poor or 
not poor —even if they live in different countries.  
 
Since World Development Report 1990, the World Bank has aimed to apply a common standard in 
measuring extreme poverty, anchored to what p overty means in the world's poorest countries. The 
welfare of people living in different countries can be measured on a common scale by adjusting for 
differences in the purchasing power of currencies. The commonly used $1 a day standard, measured in 
1985 i nternational prices and adjusted to local currency using purchaing power parity (PPP) exchange 
rates , was chosen for World Development Report 1990 because it was typical of the poverty lines in low -
income countries at the time. As differences in the cost o f living across the world evolve, the 
international poverty line has to be periodically updated using new PPP price data to reflect these 
changes. The last change was in September  2022, when the World Bank adopted $ 2.15 as the 
international poverty line us ing the 201 7 PPP. Prior to that, the 20 15 update set the international poverty 
line at $1. 90 using the 20 11 PPP. Poverty measures based on international poverty lines attempt to hold 
the real value of the poverty line constant across countries  and over tim e.  
 
