etadata  
(Harmonized metadata template - format version 1. 1) 
 
0. Indicator information (SDG_INDICATOR_INFO)  
0.a. Goal (SDG_GOAL)  
Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well -being for all at all ages  
0.b. Target (SDG_TARGET)  
Target 3.7: By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health -care services, including for 
family planning, information and education, and the  integration of reproductive health into national 
strategies and programmes  
0.c. Indicator (SDG_INDICATOR)  
Indicator 3.7.1: Proportion of women of reproductive age (aged 15 –49 years) who have their need for family 
planning satisfied with modern methods  
0.d. Series (SDG_SERIES_DESCR)  
SH_FPL_MTMM - Proportion of women of reproductive age (aged 15 -49 years) who have their need for 
family planning satisfied with modern methods [3 .7.1]  
0.e. Metadata update (META_LAST_UPDATE)  
2024 -03-28 
0.f. Related indicators (SDG_RELATED_INDICATORS)  
This indicator is linked to Target 3.8 (Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, 
access to quality essential health -care services and access to safe, effective, qu ality and affordable essential 
medicines and vaccines for all) because the provision of family planning information and methods to all 
individuals who want to prevent pregnancy is an important component of achieving universal health 
coverage.  
This indicato r is also linked to Target 5.6 (Ensure universal access to sexual and reproductive health and 
reproductive rights as agreed in accordance with the Programme of Action of the International Conference 
on Population and Development and the Beijing Platform fo r Action and the outcome documents of their 
review conferences) because meeting the demand for family planning is facilitated by increasing access to 
sexual and reproductive health -care services, and also improves sexual and reproductive health and the 
ability to exercise reproductive rights.  
0.g. International organisations(s) responsible for global monitoring 
(SDG_CUSTODIAN_AGENCIES)  
Population Division, Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA)  
United  Nations Population  Fund (UNFPA)  
 
1. Data reporter (CONTACT)  
1.a. Organisation (CONTACT_ORGANISATION)  
Population Division, Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA)  Last updated:  2024 -03-28 
United  Nations Population  Fund (UNFPA)  
 
2. Definition, concepts, and classifications (IND_DEF_CON_CLASS)  
2.a. Definit ion and concepts (STAT_CONC_DEF)  
  
The percentage of women of reproductive age (15 -49 years) currently using a modern method  of 
contraception among those who desire either to have no (additional) children or to postpone the next 
pregnancy . The indicator is also referred to as the  demand  for family planning satisfied with modern 
methods . 
 
  
The percentage of women of reproductive age (15 -49 years) who have their need for family planning satisfied 
with modern methods is also referred to as the proportion of demand satisfied by modern methods. The 
components of the indicator are contraceptive prevalence (any method and modern methods) and unmet 
need for family planning.  
 
Contraceptive prevalence is the percentage of women who are currently using, or whose partner is currently 
using, at least one method of contraception, regardless of the method used.  
 
For analytical purposes, contraceptive methods are often classified as either modern or traditional. Modern 
methods of contr aception include female and male sterilization, the intra -uterine device (IUD), the implant, 
injectables, oral contraceptive pills, male and female condoms, vaginal barrier methods (including the 
diaphragm, cervical cap and spermicidal foam, jelly, cream a nd sponge), lactational amenorrhea method 
(LAM), emergency contraception and other modern methods not reported separately (e.g., the contraceptive 
patch or vaginal ring). Traditional methods of contraception include rhythm (e.g., fertility awareness -based 
methods, periodic abstinence), withdrawal and other traditional methods not reported separately.  
 
Unmet need for family planning is defined as the percentage of women of reproductive age who want to stop 
or delay childbearing but are not using any method o f contraception.  The standard definition of unmet need 
for family planning includes women who are fecund and sexually active in the numerator, and who report not 
wanting any (more) children, or who report wanting to delay the birth of their next child for at least two 
years or are undecided about the timing of the next birth, but who are not using any method of 
contraception. The numerator also includes  pregnant women whose pregnancies were unwanted or 
mistimed at the time of conception; and  postpartum  amen orrheic  women who are not using family planning 
and whose last birth was unwanted or mistimed.  Further information on the operational definition of the 
unmet need for family planning, as well as survey questions and statistical programs needed to derive the 
indicator, can be found at the following website of the USAID Demographic and Health Surveys Program: 
http://measuredhs.com/Topics/Unmet -Need.cfm . 
 
