Coverage of DTP containing vaccine  (3rd dose) : Percentage of surviving infants who received the 3 doses 
of diphtheria and tetanus toxoid with pertussis containing vaccine  in a given  year.  
  
Coverage of Measles containing vaccine  (2nd dose) : Percentage of children who received  two dose of 
measles containing vaccine according to  nationally recommended schedule  through routine 
immunization services  in a given  year.  
  
Coverage of Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine  (last dose in the schedule):  Percentage of surviving infants 
who received  the nationally  recommended doses  of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine  in a given  year.   
  
Coverage of HPV  vaccine  (last dose in the schedule) : Percentage of 15 years old girls who received the 
recommended doses of HPV  vaccine.  Currently performan ce of the programme in the previous calendar 
year based on target age group is used.   
   
   
In accordance with its mandate to provide guidance to Member States on health policy matters, WHO 
provides global vaccine and immunization recommendations for diseases that have an international 
public health impact . National programmes adapt  the recommendations and develop national 
immunization schedules, based on local disease epidemiology and national health priorities.  National 
immunizati on schedules and number of recommended vaccines vary between countries, with only 
DTP polio  and measles containing vaccines being used in all countries.    
  
The target population for given vaccine is defined based on recommended  age for administration. The  
primary vaccination series of most  vaccines are administered in the first  two years of life.   
  
Coverage of DTP containing vaccine  measure the overall system strength to deliver infant vaccination   
Coverage of Measles containing vaccine  ability to deliver vaccines beyond first year of life through 
routine immunization services .  
Coverage of Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine: adaptation of new vaccines for children   
Coverage of HPV  vaccine:  life course vaccination    
  
 
