SDG i ndicator 6.6.1 tracks the extent to which d ifferent types of water -related ecosystems are changing in 
extent over time. The indicator is multifaceted capturing data on different types of freshwater ecosystems 
and to measure extent change the indicator considers spatial area changes, water quality   and water 
quantity changes. The indicator uses satellite -based Earth observations to globally monitor different 
freshwater ecosystems types . Earth observation data series on surface area are available on permanent 
water, seasonal water, reservoirs, wetlands, mangroves; as well as generating data on water quality , using  
trophic state and turbidity of water bodies. Satellite images can be repres ented as numerical data, which 
in turn are aggregated into meaningful statistics of ecosystem change attributed to administrative areas 
such as national, sub -national (e.g. regions and provinces) and river basin boundaries. Global data products 
for river f lows and groundwater level have not yet been produced at useful spatial and temporal 
resolutions to be incorporated into this SDG 6.6.1 methodology. Currently, these data should continue to 
be provided from modelling or from ground -based measurements and r equired from the countries.  
 
Table 1: SDG indicator 6.6.1 data derived from Earth observations  
 
Ecosystem  Unit  Features  
Lakes & Rivers  (permanent water area)  surface area  • annual information on  
permanent water area  
(2000 -present)  
• statistics for changes in 
the areal extent of  
permanent water (2000 -
present ) 
• statistics aggregated at 
national  and sub-
national basin scales  
Lakes & Rivers  (seasonal water area)  surface area  • annual information on  
seasonal water area  
(2000 -present)  
• statistics for changes in 
the areal extent of  
seasonal water (2000 -
present ) Last updated: 202 4-07-29 
Ecosystem  Unit  Features  
• annual seasonality 
statistics for periods: 0 -
1, 3-6, 7-11 months  
• statistics aggregated at 
national  and sub-
national basin scales  
Reservoirs  surface area  
 
 
 • annual information on 
reservoir minimum and 
maximum surface area 
(1984pr esent)  
• statistics for changes in 
minimum area (2000 -
present ) 
• statistics aggregated at 
national  and sub-
national  basin scales  
Mangroves  surface area  • near annual information 
on mangrove  area 
(2000 -present ) 
• Statistics on changes in 
mangrove area (2000 -
present)  
• statistics aggregated at 
national scales  
Wetlands  surface area  • wetlands area (baseline 
area comprised of data 
btw 2016 -2018)  
• statistics aggregated at 
national  and sub-
national basin scales  
• wetlands area changes 
to be included in 
2025/26  
Lakes  & Reservoirs  water quality  • Monthly, annual and 
multi -annual 
measurements of 
trophic state and 
turbidity for 4,200 lakes  
and reservoirs  globally 
(at 300m resolution)  
 Last updated: 202 4-07-29 
Table 2 : SDG indicator 6.6.1 data derived from models and/or national in -situ measurements  
Ecosystem  Unit  Features  
Rivers  flow  • Annually modelled stream flow (2000 -present)  
• Statistics for changes in minimum and maximum stream flow 
(2000 -present ) 
• Statistics aggregated at national and sub -national basin scales  
Groundwater  level  • Changes to volume measurements, over time, of all major 
groundwater aquifers  
 
  
The concepts and definitions used in the methodology have been based on existing international 
frameworks and glossaries unless indicated otherwise below.  
Water -related ecosystems  are a sub -set of all ecosystems. They contain the world’s freshwater resources 
and can be defined as “a dynamic complex of plant, animal, and micro -organism communities and the non -
living environment dominated by the presence of flowing or still water, interacting as a functional unit.” 
(MEA, 2005; Dickens et al, 2019).  The indicator is framed around the monitoring of different types of water -
related  ecosystems including lakes, rivers, wetlands, groundwater and artificial waterbodies such as 
reservoirs. These water -related ecosystems contain freshwater, except for  mangroves which contain 
brackish water (i.e. a combination of fresh and saltwater) , however , mangroves are still included within 
indicator 6.6.1. Reservoirs are also included as a category of water -related ecosystem within the indicator 
methodology; while  it is recognized that reservoirs are not traditional water ecosystems which should 
necessarily warrant protection and restoration, in many countries they hold a noteworthy amount of 
freshwater and have thus been included. By including data on reservoirs, it is intended that countries can 
better understand changes occurring to artificial water bodies in conjunction with changes occurring to 
natural water bodies. Ecosystems that are not included under indicator 6.6.1 are: coral reefs and sea grass 
which are covered within Goal 14 (Oceans); and mountains, forests, and drylands which are covered within 
Goal 15 (Land). The extent to which each of the water -related ecosystems included under indicator 6.6.1 
can be measured, uses one or more of the following physic al parameters of change: spatial area, quantity 
(or volume) of water, and water quality. The full monitoring methodology for indicator 6.6.1 is available 
here. The extent to which each of the water -related ecosystems included under indicator 6.6.1 can be 
measured, uses one or more of the following physical parameters of change: spatial area, quantity (or 
volume) of water, and water quality.  
 
Permanent and seasonal water . A permanent water surface is underwater throughout the year whilst a 
seasonal water surface is underwater for less than 12 months of the year. Some locations don ’t have 
observations for all 12 months of the year (for reasons such as polar night). In thes e cases, water is 
considered as seasonal if the number of months where water is present is less than the number of months 
where valid observations were acquired.  
A second consideration is lakes and rivers that freeze for part of the year. During the frozen  period water 
is still present under the ice (true both for rivers/lakes and the sea). If water is present throughout the 
observation period (i.e. unfrozen period), the water body is considered as a permanent water surface. If 
the area of the water body co ntracts during the unfrozen period, then the pixels along the borders of the 
lake or river are no longer water, and those pixels will be considered as a seasonal water surface.  
 Last updated: 202 4-07-29 
Reservoirs  are artificial (or human -made) bodies of freshwater, as opposed to lakes which are naturally 
occurring. The reservoirs dataset represents surface area data on artificial water bodies including reservoirs 
formed by dams, flooded areas such as opencast mines and quarries, flood irrigation areas, and water 
bodies created by hydro -engineering projects such as waterway and harbour construction.  
 
Inland vegetated wetlands  include areas of marshes, peatlands, swamps, bogs and fens, the vegetated 
parts of floodplains as well as rice paddies and flood recession agriculture. Inland vegetated wetlands do 
not include coastal mangroves. Data on mangroves which are produced separa tely to inland wetlands. This 
SDG indicator methodology is used for official reporting of SDG indicator 6.6.1 statistics. The SDG indicator 
6.6.1 methodology does not apply the definition of wetlands defined by the Ramsar Convention on 
Wetlands, which is: “areas of marsh, fen, peatland or water, whether natural or artificial, permanent or 
temporary, with water that is static or flowing, fresh, brackish or salt, including areas of marine water the 
depth of which at low tide does not exceed six meters”. The R amsar definition of wetlands may be 
interpreted to mean all water within a country including the marine environment. The SDG indicator 6.6.1 
definition refers to only a specific group of inland vegetated wetlands typologies.  
 
Turbidity  is an indicator of w ater clarity, quantifying the haziness of the water and acting as an indicator of 
underwater light availability.  
Trophic State  refers to the degree at which organic matter accumulates in the water body and is most 
commonly used in relation to monitoring eu trophication.  
Surface Water  refers to any  area of surface water unobstructed by aquatic vegetation. This includes the 
following 3 water -related ecosystem categories: rivers and estuaries, lakes, and artificial waterbodies.  
Extent  – has been expanded beyond spatial extent to capture additional bas ic parameters needed for the 
protection and restoration of water -related ecosystems. Extent includes three components: the spatial 
extent or surface area, the quality, and the quantity of water -related ecosystems.  
Change  means  a shift from one condition o f extent to another over time within a water -related ecosystem, 
measured against a point of reference.  
 
