etadata  
(Harmonized metadata template - format version 1.0)  
 
0. Indicator information (SDG_INDICATOR_INFO)  
0.a. Goal (SDG_GOAL)  
Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all  
0.b. Target (SDG_TARGET)  
Target 6.1: By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all  
0.c. Indicator (SDG_INDICATOR)  
Indicator 6.1.1: Proportion of population using safely managed drinking water services  
0.d. Series (SDG_SERIES_DESCR)  
SH_H2O_SAFE  - Proportion of population using safely managed drinking water services [6.1.1]  
0.e. Metadata update (META_LAST_UPDATE)  
2024 -09-27 
0.f. Related indicators (SDG_RELATED_INDICATORS)  
All targets under Goal 6, as well as targets 1.2, 1.4, 2.2, 3.2, 3.8, 3.9, 4a, 5.4 and 11.1  
0.g. International organisations(s) responsible for global monitoring 
(SDG_CUSTODIAN_AGENCIES)  
World Health Organization (WHO)  
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)  
 
1. Data reporter (CONTACT)  
1.a. Organisation (CONTACT_ORGANISATION)  
World Health Organization (WHO)  
United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)  
WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene (JMP)  
 
2. Definition, concepts, and classifications (IND_DEF_CON_CLASS)  
2.a. Defi nition and concepts (STAT_CONC_DEF)  
  
The proportion  of the population using safely managed drinking water services is defined as  the proportion 
of population using an improved drinking water source which is accessible  on premises , available when  
needed and free from  faecal and priority chemical contamination. ‘Improved’ drinking water sources 
include: piped supplies,  boreholes and tubewells , protected dug wells , protected springs , rainwater, water 
kiosks, and  packaged and delivere d water .  
 
  
The term ‘drinking water source’ refers to the point where people collect water for drinking and not the 
origin of the water supplied. For example, water collected from a distribution network that draws water Last updated:  2024 -09-27 
from a surface water reservoir would be classified as piped water, while water collected directly from a 
lake or river would be classified as surface water.  
 
‘Improved’  drinking water sources include the following: piped water , boreholes or tubewells , protected 
dug wells , prot ected springs , rainwater, water kiosks, and packaged or delivered water.  
 
‘Unimproved’ drinking water sources include: unprotected dug wells, unprotected springs, and surface 
water (rivers, reservoirs, lakes, ponds, streams, canals, and irrigation channels), al l of which are by nature 
of their design and construction unlikely to deliver safe water.  
 
A water source is ‘accessible  on premises’ if the point of collection is within the dwelling, compound, yard 
or plot , or water is delivered to the household . 
 
Drinki ng water is ‘available  when needed’  if households report having ‘sufficient’ water, or water is 
available ‘most  of the time’ (i.e. at least 12 hours per day or 4 days per week).  
 
‘Free from faecal and priority chemical contamination’ requires that drinking  water meets international 
standards for microbiological and chemical water quality specified in the WHO Guidelines for Drinking 
Water Quality . For the  purposes of global monitoring the priority indicator of microbiological 
contamination is E. coli  (or the rmotolerant coliforms ), and the priority chemical contaminants are arsenic 
and fluoride . 
 
For detailed guidance on water quality, please refer to the most recent version of the WHO Guidelines for 
drinking water quality:  
https://www.who.int/teams/environment -climate -change -and-health/water -sanitation -and-
health/water -safety -and-quality/drinking -wate r-quality -guidelines   
 
