The p roportion of the population using safely managed sanitation services is defined as the proportion of 
the population using a n improved sanitation facility which is not shared with other households and where 
excreta are safely disposed of in situ or removed and treated off -site. ‘Improved’ sanitation facilities are 
those designed to hygienically  separate human excreta from human contact. T hese include  wet sanitation 
technologies such as flush and pour flush toilets  connected to sewers, septic tanks or pit latrines, and dry Last updated:  2024 -09-27 
sanitation  technologies such as dry pit latrines with slabs , ventilated improved pit latrines  and composting  
toilets.  
 
  
An ‘improved sanitation facility ’ is defined as one designed to  hygienically separate human excreta from 
human  contact. Improved sanitation facilities include wet sanitation technologies such as flush or pour 
flush toilets  connected  to sewer systems, septic tanks or pit latrines ; and dry sanitation  technologies such 
as dry pit latrines with slabs  (constructed from materials that are durable and easy to clean ), ventilated 
improved pit (VIP) latrines, pit latrines with a slab, composti ng toilets  and c ontainer based sanitation . If a 
household uses a flush or pour flush toilet but does not know where it is flushed to, the sanitation  facility 
is considered to be improved since the household may not be aware about whether it flushes to a sewer, 
septic tank or pit latrine .  
 
‘Unimproved  sanitation facilities’ include flush or pour flush toilets  connected to open drains; pit latrines 
with out slabs ; open pits; buckets , pans, ‘ trays’ or other unsealed  containers ; hanging toilets/latrines; 
defecation in the bush or field or  ditch and defecation  into surface water (drainage channel s, beach es, 
river s, stream s or the sea). If a household uses a flush or pour flush toilet and survey respondents report 
that it is not flushed to sewer systems, septic tanks or pit latrines  but elsewhere , the sanitation facility is 
considered to be un improved .  
 
Improved sanitation refers only to the type of facility used, irrespective of whether the facilities are shared. 
Public toilets, as well as privately owned sanitation facilities which are shared by two or more families, are 
classified as ‘shared facilities ’. Use of improved sanitation facilities which are not shared is defined as a 
‘basic sanitation service’, while use of improved sanitation facilities which are shared is defined as a ‘limited 
sanitation service’. ‘Basic sanitation services’ may also be cou nted as ‘safely managed sanitation services’, 
but additional information is required about the management of excreta.  
 
For monitoring of safely managed sanitation services, excreta from different types of sanitation facilities  
are tracked through stages of  the ‘sanitation management chain’: containment, emptying,  transport, 
treatment, and reuse or final disposal . These stages are followed separately for excreta flushed  into sewer 
networks, and for excreta stored in on -site containers such as septic tanks an d pit latrines . 
 
Excreta from on -site storage containers ( pit latrines and septic tanks ) can be treated and disposed of off -
site, when faecal sludge is emptied from containers and delivered to treatment plants  designed to receive 
faecal sludge . Excreta flushed into sewer networks can also be treated off -site, if the excreta reaches 
treatment plants and receives a minimum level of treatment.  
 
For the purposes of SDG monitoring, treatment of wastewater and faeca l sludge is  assessed based on the 
treatment plant design technology, using categories defined by the System of Environmental -Economic 
Accounting (SEEA ) and the International Recommendations for Water Statistics and following a laddered 
approach (primary, s econdary and tertiary treatment).  Wastewater and faecal sludge receiving secondary 
or higher levels  of treatment are considered ‘safely managed ’. Primary treatment is not considered safely 
managed, unless the effluent is discharged in a way that precludes further human contact (e.g. through a 
long ocean outfall). If data are available for conventional classes (primary, secondary, tertiary, advanced) 
as well as for ambiguous categories (e.g. “other”), ambiguous categories are generally not considered as 
safely managed. Where treatment classes are not specified (e.g. “treated”) ,   at least secondary treatment 
is assumed for estimations but clarification is request ed during country consultations.  Treatment of excreta 
in faecal sludge treatment plants is classified as safely  managed if both the liquid and solid fractions are 
treated.  Last updated:  2024 -09-27 
 
Excreta stored in on -site storage containers can be safely treated and disposed of on -site (‘s afe dispos al in 
situ’) if pit latrines and septic tanks  are not emptied  and excreta are contained ( remain isolated from 
human contact ) such that solids  degrade within the container through physical and biological processes , 
and liquid effluent connects to an infiltration system such as a soakaway pit or leachfield . Faecal sludge 
emptied from septic tanks and pit latrines and buried on-site in a covered pit is also counted as safely 
disposed of in situ.  
 
For detailed guidance on safe sanitation , please refer to the most re cent  version of the WHO Guidelines on 
Sanitation and Health : 
https://www.who.int/teams/environment -climate -change -and-health/water -sanitation -and-
health/sanitation -safety   
 
