Change in  water use efficiency over time (CWUE) : The change in the ratio of the value added to the 
volume of water use , over time.  
 Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
Water Use Efficiency (WUE) is defined as the value added  of a given major sector1 divided by the volume 
of water used . Following  the United Nations International Standard Industrial Classification of All 
Economic Activities ISIC 4 coding  , sectors are defined as:  
1. agriculture; forestry; fishing (ISIC A), hereinafter “agriculture”;  
2. mining and quarrying; manufacturing; electricity, gas, st eam and air conditioning supply; 
constructions (ISIC B, C, D and F), hereinafter “MIMEC”;  
3. all the service sectors (ISIC E and ISIC G -T), hereinafter “services”.  
 
  
• Water use: water that is received by an industry or households from another industry  or is 
directly abstracted.  [SEEA -Water ( ST/ESA/STAT/SER.F/100 ), par. 2.21]  
 
• Water abstraction: water removed from the environment by the economy. [SEEA -Water 
(ST/ESA/STAT/SER.F/100 ), par. 2.9]  
 
• Water use for irrigation (km³/year)  
o Annual quantity of water  used  for irrigation purposes. It includes water from renewable 
freshwater resources , as well as water from over -abstraction of renewable groundwater 
or abstraction  of fossil groundwater, direct use of agricultural drainage water, (treated) 
wastewater, and desalinated water . [AQUASTAT Glossary]  
 
• Water use for livestock (watering and cleaning) (km³/year)  
o Annual quantity of water used for livestock purposes. It includ es water from renewable 
freshwater resources, as well as water from over -abstraction of renewable groundwater 
or abstraction of fossil groundwater, direct use of agricultural drainage water, (treated) 
wastewater, and desalinated water. It includes livestoc k watering, sanitation, cleaning of 
stables, etc. If connected to the public water supply network, water used for livestock is 
included in the services water use.  [AQUASTAT Glossary]  
 
• Water use for aquaculture (km³/year)  
o Annual quantity of water used for aquaculture. It includes water from renewable 
freshwater resources, as well as water from over -abstraction of renewable groundwater 
or abstraction of fossil groundwater, direct use of agricultural drainage water, (treated) 
wastewater, and desalinated water . Aquaculture is the farming of aquatic organisms in 
inland and coastal areas, involving intervention in the rearing process to enhance 
production and the individual or corporate ownership of the stock being cultivated.  
[AQUASTAT Glossary]  
 
• Water use for t he MIMEC sectors (km³/year)  
o Annual quantity of water used for the MIMEC sector. It includes water from renewable 
freshwater resources, as well as over -abstraction of renewable groundwater or 
abstraction of fossil groundwater and use of desalinated water or direct use of (treated) 
wastewater. This sector refers to self -supplied industries not connected to the public 
 
1 In order to maintain consistency with the terminology used in SEEA -Water, the terms water use and water abstraction are 
utilized in this text. In particular, “water abstraction” must be considered synonym of “water withdrawal, as expressed in 
both AQUASTA T and the statement of the SDG target 6.4.  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
distribution network. [AQUASTAT Glossary. To be noted that in AQUASTAT, the sectors 
included in the MIMEC group are referred to as “industry”]2 
 
• Water use for the services  sectors (km³/year)  
o Annual quantity of water used primarily for the direct use by the population. It includes 
water from renewable freshwater resources, as well as over -abstraction of renewable 
groundwater or abstraction of fossil groundwater and the use o f desalinated water or 
direct use of treated wastewater. It is usually computed as the total water used by the 
public distribution network. It can include that part of the industries, which is connected 
to the municipal network. [AQUASTAT Glossary. To be n oted that in AQUASTAT, the 
sectors included in “services” are referred to as “municipal”]  
 
• Value added (gross)  
o Value added is the net output of a sector after adding up all outputs and subtracting 
intermediate inputs. It is calculated without making deduct ions for depreciation of 
fabricated assets or depletion and degradation of natural resources. The industrial origin 
of value added is determined by the International Standard Industrial Classification 
(ISIC), revision 4. [WB Databank, metadata glossary, mo dified]  
 
• Arable land  
o Arable land is the land under temporary agricultural crops (multiple -cropped areas are 
counted only once), temporary meadows for mowing or pasture, land under market and 
kitchen gardens and land temporarily fallow (less than five years ). The abandoned land 
resulting from shifting cultivation is not included in this category. Data for “Arable land” 
are not meant to indicate the amount of land that is potentially cultivable. [FAOSTAT]  
 
• Permanent crops  
o Permanent crops are the land cultivat ed with long -term crops which do not have to be 
replanted for several years (such as cocoa and coffee); land under trees and shrubs 
producing flowers, such as roses and jasmine; and nurseries (except those for forest 
trees, which should be classified under  "forest"). Permanent meadows and pastures are 
excluded from land under permanent crops. [FAOSTAT]  
 
• Proportion of irrigated land on the total cultivated land  
o Total harvested irrigated crop area , expressed in percentage . Area under double 
irrigated cropping  (same area cultivated and irrigated twice a year) is counted twice . 
 
