Definitions:  
This indicator measures the volumes of wastewater which are generated through different activities, and 
the volumes of wastewater which are safely treated before discharge into the environment. Both of 
these indicators are measured in units of 1000 m3/day,  although some data sources may use other units 
that require conversion. The ratio of the volume treated to the volume generated is taken as the 
‘proportion of wastewater flow safely treated’.  
 
Wastewater flows will be classified into industrial, services, and domestic flows, with reference to the  
International  Standard Industrial  Classification of All  Economic Activitie s Revision 4  (ISIC). To the extent 
possible, the proportion of each of these waste streams that is safely treated before discharge to the 
environment will be calculated.  
 
  
Total w astewater generation and treatment can be quantified at the national  level, and wastewater can 
also be disaggregated into different types of flows, based on ISIC categories. Domestic wastewater 
generated by  private households, as well as wastewater generated by economic activities  covered by ISIC 
categories,  may or may not be pre-treated on premises before discharge to either the  sewer for further 
treatment or directly to the environment, as shown in Figure 1.  
 
Figure 1: Schematic Representation of wastewater sources, collecting s ystems and treatment  
(modified from wastewater loading diagram, OECD/Eurostat 2018).  
 
The main sources of wastewater include wastewater from households, services and industries, i.e. point 
sources of one or more pollutant(s) that can be geographically loca ted and  represented as a point on a 
map. Diffused pollution from non -point sources such as runoff from  urban and agricultural land can 
contribute quite significantly to wastewater flows (Figure 1), and  therefore its progressive inclusion in the 
global moni toring framework will be important. Presently, it  cannot be monitored at source and its 
Last updated: 202 4-09-27 
   
 impact on ambient water quality will be monitored under  indicator 6.3.2 “Proportion of bodies of water 
with good ambient water quality”.   
 
Differentiating between the d ifferent wastewater streams is important as policy decisions need to be  
guided by the polluter pays principle. However, wastewater conveyed by combined sewers usually  
combines both hazardous and non -hazardous substances discharged from different sources, b ut also 
runoff and  urban stormwater, which cannot be separately tracked and monitored. As a consequence, 
although  the flow of wastewater generated can be disaggregated by sources (domestic , services  
industrial), the  treated  wastewater statistics are most commonly disaggregated by type (e.g. urban and 
industrial) and/or level of  treatment (e.g. secondary) rather than by sources.  
 
Total wastewater flows can be classified into three main categories (see ‘disaggregation section’ f or 
details:  
• Industrial (ISIC divisions 05 -35) 
• Services (ISIC divisions 45 -96) 
• Domestic (private households)  
 
Wastewater treatment can be classified into three main categories (see ‘disaggregation section’ for 
details:  
• Primary  
• Secondary  
• Tertiary  
 
Where possible, treatment will additionally be classified into either on -premises or off -premises 
treatment.  
 
Domestic  wastewater:  Wastewater from residential settlements which originates predominantly from 
the human metabolism and from household activiti es. 
Industrial (process) wastewater: Water discharged after being used in, or produced by, industrial 
production processes and which is of no further immediate value to these processes. Where process 
water recycling systems have been installed, process wastewater is the final discharge from these 
circuits. To meet quality standards for eventual discharge into public sewers, this process waste -water is 
understood to be subjected to ex -process in -plant treatment. Cooling water is not considered her e. 
Sanitary wastewater and surface runoff from industries are also excluded here.  
Total wastewater generated is the total volume of wastewater generated by economic activities 
(agriculture, forestry and fishing; mining and quarrying; manufacturing; electri city, gas, steam and air 
conditioning supply; and other economic activities) and households. Cooling water is excluded.  
Urban wastewater : Domestic wastewater or the mixture of domestic wastewater with industrial 
wastewater and/or runoff rain water.  
Waste water: Wastewater is water which is of no further value to the purpose for which it was used 
because of its quality, quantity or time of occurrence. Cooling water is not considered here.  
Wastewater discharge: The amount of water (in m3) or substance (in kg  BOD/d or comparable) 
added/leached to a water body (Fresh or non -fresh) from a point source.  Last updated: 202 4-09-27 
   
 Wastewater treatment : Process to render wastewater fit to meet applicable environmental standards or 
other quality norms for recycling or reuse.  
 
