)  
  
The indicator assesses the percentage of local administrative units (as defined by the national 
government) that have an established and operational mechanism by which individuals and communities 
can meaningfully contribute to decisions and directions about water and sanitation management.  
 
The indicator Proportion of local administrative units with established and operational policies and 
procedures for participation of local communities in water and sanitation management is currently being 
measured by the Proportion of countries with clearly defined procedures in law or policy for participation 
by service users/communities in planning program in water and sanitation management, and hygiene 
promoti on and the Proportion of countries with high level of users/communities participating in planning 
programs in water and sanitation management, and hygiene promotion.  
 
  
Stakeholder participation is essential to ensure the sustainability of water an d sanitation management 
options over time, e.g. the choice of appropriate solutions for a given social and economic context, and 
the full understanding of the impacts of a certain development decision. Defining the procedures in 
policy or law for the parti cipation of local communities is vital to ensure needs of all the community is 
met, including the most vulnerable and also encourages ownership of schemes which in turn contributes 
to their sustainability.  
 
Local administrative units refers to non -overlapp ing sub -districts, municipalities, communes, or other 
local community -level units covering both urban and rural areas to be defined by the government.  
 
Policies and procedures for participation of local communities in water and sanitation management 
would  define a formal mechanism to ensure participation of users in planning water and sanitation 
activities.  
 
A policy or procedure is considered to be established if the mechanism for participation of local 
communities is defined in law or has been formally approved and published. It is considered to be 
operational if the policy or procedure is being implemented, with appropriate funding in place and with 
means for verifying that participation took place.  
 
‘Water and sanitation’ includes all areas of manageme nt related to each of the targets under SDG 6, 
namely: water supply (6.1), sanitation and hygiene (6.2), wastewater treatment and ambient water 
quality (6.3), efficiency and sustainable use (6.4), integrated water resources management (6.5) and 
water -relat ed ecosystems (6.6).  
 
