Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
  
The level of water stress: freshwater withdrawal as a proportion of available freshwater resources is the 
ratio between total freshwater withdrawn by all major sectors and total renewable freshwater resources, 
after taking into account environmental flow  requirements. Main sectors, as defined by ISIC standards, 
include agriculture; forestry and fishing; manufacturing; electricity industry; and services. This indicator is 
also known as water withdrawal intensity.  
 
  
This indicator provides an estimat e of pressure by all sectors on the country’s renewable freshwater 
resources. A low level of water stress indicates a situation where the combined withdrawal by all sectors 
is marginal in relation to the resources, and has therefore little potential impact  on the sustainability of 
the resources or on the potential competition between users. A high level of water stress indicates a 
situation where the combined withdrawal by all sectors represents a substantial share of the total 
renewable freshwater resource s, with potentially larger impacts on the sustainability of the resources 
and potential situations of conflicts and competition between users.  
 
Total renewable freshwater resources (TRWR) are expressed as the sum of internal and external 
renewable water r esources. The terms “water resources” and “water withdrawal” are understood here 
as freshwater resources and freshwater withdrawal.  
 
Internal renewable water resources are defined as the long -term average annual flow of rivers and 
recharge of groundwater for a given country generated from endogenous precipitation.  
 
External renewable water resources refer to the flows of water entering the country, taking into 
consideration the quantity of flows reserved to upstream and downstream countries through agreem ents 
or treaties.  
 
Total freshwater withdrawal ( TFWW ) is the volume of freshwater extracted from its source (rivers, lakes, 
aquifers) for agriculture, industries and services1. It is estimated at the country level for the following 
three main sectors: agriculture, services (including domestic water withdra wal) and industries  (including 
cooling of thermoelectric plants) . Freshwater withdrawal includes fossil groundwater. It does not include 
non-conventional water, i.e. direct use of treated wastewater, direct use of agricultural drainage water 
and desalinate d water.  
 
Environmental flow  requirements ( EFR) are defined as the quantity and timing of freshwater flows and 
levels necessary to sustain aquatic ecosystems, which, in turn, support human cultures, economies, 
sustainable livelihoods, and wellbeing.  Wate r quality and also the resulting ecosystem services are 
excluded from this formulation which is confined to water volumes. This does not imply that quality and 
the support to societies which are dependent on environmental flows are not important and should  not 
be taken care of.2 Methods of computation of EFR are extremely variable and range from global 
estimates to comprehensive assessments for river reaches. For the purpose of the SDG indicator, water 
volumes can be expressed in the same units as the TFWW , and then as percentages of the available water 
resources.  
 
 
1 In AQUASTAT, Services water withdrawal is reported as Municipal water withdrawal.  
2 They are indeed taken into account by other targets and indicators, such as 6.3.2, 6.5.1 and 6.6.1.  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
