- “extent  of wetlands ”  
This term can be defined as the surface area of wetlands. It is measured in km 2 or hectares. It is expected 
that the surface reported by countries in 2018 correspond  to th at of  2017; if not, the reference year 
should be indicated.  
 
- “change  in the extent of wetlands ”  
This term refers to the percentage  change in area of wetlands from a baseline reference. For reporting 
such change, the previous extent, if known, and the period over which the change has taken place should 
be specified.  
 
Conc epts:  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
 
In order to provide a precise definition of the indicator, it is crucial to provide a definition of   
“Water related ecosystems ”. For this purpose, the definition of the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands is 
used.  
 
- the Ramsar definition of “wetlands”  
 
The Ramsar definition is very broad, reflecting the purpose and global coverage of the Convention:  
 
In accordance with Article 1.1 of the Convention,  
“Wetlands are areas of marsh, fen, peatland or water, whether natural or artificial, permanent or 
tempora ry, with water that is static or flowing, fresh, brackish or salt, including areas of marine water the 
depth of which at low tide does not exceed six metres ”. 
 
In addition, in accordance with Article 2.1, Ramsar Sites  
“may incorporate riparian and coastal  zones adjacent to the wetlands, and islands or bodies of marine 
water deeper than six metres at low tide lying within the wetlands ”. 
 
- the Ramsar system of classifying wetland types  
 
Many national definitions and classifications of “wetlands” are in use. They have been developed in 
response to different national needs and take into account the main biophysical features (generally 
vegetation, landform and water regime, and sometimes als o water chemistry such as salinity) and the 
variety and size of wetlands in the locality or region being considered.  
 
The Ramsar Classification System  for Wetland Types , adopted at COP4 in 1990, and amended at COP6 in 
1996 (Resolution VI.5) and at COP7 in 1999 (Resolution VII.11) has value as a basic internationally 
applicable habitat description for sites designated for the Ramsar List of Wetlands of International 
Importance.  
 
The System (see Annex 1)  describes the types of wetland  covered by each of the wetland type codes. 
Note that the wetland types are grouped in three major categories: marine/coastal , inland , and human -
made  wetlands. Within a single Ramsar Site or other wetland, there may be wetland types from two or 
more of the se categories, particularly if the wetland is large.  
 
For the purpose of the Target and Indicator, and based on the National Reports Parties report on the use 
of the three major categories. Countries also use Ramsar definition that has been internationall y agreed 
under the Convention. The minimum information that should be provided is the total area of wetlands 
for each of these three categories with an emphasis on inland wetlands or freshwater ecosystems for 
purpose of indicator 6.6.1 (see table below, th e explanations of each wetland type code is in Annex 1).   
 
Table 1: Tabulations of Wetland Type characteristics, Inland Wetlands:  
Fresh water  Flowing water  Permanent  Rivers, streams, 
creeks  M 
Deltas  L 
 Springs, oases  Y 
Seasonal/intermittent  Rivers, streams, 
creeks  N 
Lakes and pools  Permanent  > 8 ha  O 
< 8 ha  Tp 
Seasonal/intermittent  > 8 ha  P 
 < 8 ha  Ts Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
 
Marshes on 
inorganic soils  Permanent  Herb -dominated  Tp 
Permanent/ 
Seasonal/intermittent  Shrub -
dominated  W 
Tree -dominated  Xf 
Seasonal/intermittent  Herb -dominated  Ts 
Marshes on peat 
soils  Permanent  Non -forested  U 
Forested  Xp 
Marshes on 
inorganic or peat 
soils  High altitude (alpine)  Va 
Tundra  Vt 
Saline, brackish 
or alkaline water  Lakes  Permanent  Q 
Seasonal/intermittent  R 
Marshes & pools  Permanent  Sp 
Seasonal/intermittent  Ss 
Fresh, saline, 
brackish or 
alkaline water  Geothermal  Zg 
Subterranean  Zk(b)  
 
