Amount of water - and sanitation -related official development assistance that is part of a government -
coordinated spending plan  is defined as the proportion of total water and sanitation -related Official 
Development Assistance (ODA) disbursements that are included in the government budget.  
 
  
“International cooperation and capacity -building support” implies aid (most of it qua ntifiable) in the form 
of grants or loans by external support agencies. The amount of water and sanitation -related Official 
Development Assistance (ODA) can be used as a proxy for this, captured by OECD Creditor Reporting 
System (CRS). ODA is defined as fl ows of official financing administered with the promotion of the 
economic development and welfare of developing countries as the main objective, and which are 
concessional in character with a grant element of at least 25 per cent (using a fixed 10 per cent  rate of 
discount). By convention, ODA flows comprise contributions of donor government agencies, at all levels, 
to developing countries (“bilateral ODA”) and to multilateral institutions. ODA receipts, from a recipient 
perspective, comprise disbursements by bilateral donors and multilateral institutions. Lending by export 
credit agencies —with the pure purpose of export promotion —is excluded (see 
http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/officialdevelopmentassistancedefinitionandcoverage.htm).  
 
“Developing countries” r efer to countries, which are eligible to receive official development assistance 
(see http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/daclist.htm). This limits the scope of reporting to those countries 
receiving water and sanitation ODA, and the number of such countries is expected to decrease going 
forward.  
 
Water and sanitation -related activities and programmes include those for water supply, sanitation and 
hygiene (WASH) (targets 6.1, 6.2), wastewater and water quality (6.3), water efficiency (6.4), water 
resource managem ent (6.5), and water -related ecosystems (6.6). As per target 6.a wording, it includes 
activities and programmes for water harvesting, desalination, water efficiency, wastewater treatment, 
recycling and reuse technologies.  
 
A government coordinated spendin g plan is defined as a financing plan/budget for the water and 
sanitation sector, clearly assessing the available sources of finance and strategies for financing future 
needs.  
 
