The indicator is defined as the proportion of water bodies in the country that have good ambient water 
quality. Ambient water quality refers to natural, untreated water in rivers, lakes and groundwaters and 
represents a combination of natural influences to gether with the impacts of all anthropogenic activities.  
The indicator relies on water quality data derived from in situ measurements and the analysis of samples 
collected from surface and groundwaters. Water quality is assessed by means of core physical and chemical 
parameters that reflect natural water quality related to climatological and geological factors, together with Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
major impacts on water quality.  The continuous monitoring of all surface and groundwaters is economically 
unfeasible and not  required to sufficiently characterize the status of ambient water quality in a country. 
Therefore, countries select river, lake and groundwater bodies that are representative and significant for 
the assessment and management of water quality to monitor an d report on indicator 6.3.2. The quality 
status of individual water bodies is classified based on the compliance of the available water quality 
monitoring data for the core parameters with target values defined by the country. The indicator is 
computed as the proportion of the number of water bodies classified as having good quality (i.e. with at 
least 80 % compliance) to the total number of assessed water bodies, expressed as a percentage.  
 
  
The concepts and definitions used in the methodology ha ve been based on existing international 
frameworks and glossaries (WMO , 2012) unless where indicated otherwise below.  
 
Aquifer: Geological formation capable of storing, transmitting and yielding exploitable quantities of 
water.  
Classification of water qua lity: If at least 80% of the monitoring values for prescribed parameters in a 
water body comply with their respective target values, the water body is classified as having a “good” 
water quality status . Each water body is classified as being of “good” or “ not good” status.   
Groundwater : Subsurface water occupying the saturated zone.  
Groundwater body : A distinct volume of groundwater within an aquifer or aquifers (EU , 2000). 
Groundwater bodies that cross river basin district (RBD) boundaries should be divided at the boundary with 
each separate portion of the groundwater body being reported separately along with its respective RBD.  
Lake:  Inland body of standing surface  water of significant extent.  
Non -point -source pollution:  Pollution of water bodies from dispersed sources such as fertilizers, 
chemicals and pesticides used in agricultural activities.  
Parameter: Water quality variable or characteristic of water quality,  also called a determinand.  
Point source pollution : Pollution with a precisely located origin.  
Pollution (of water) : Introduction into water of any undesirable substance which renders the water unfit 
for its intended use.  
Pollutant : Substance which disrupt s and interferes with the equilibrium of a water system and impairs 
the suitability of using the water for a desired purpose.  
Reservoir: Body of water, either natural or man -made, used for storage, regulation and control of water 
resources.  
River: Large s tream which serves as the natural drainage for a basin.  
River basin: Geographical area having a common outlet for its surface runoff.  
River basin district:  Area of land, made up of one or more neighbouring river basins together with their 
associated groun dwaters (EU, 2000).  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
River water body : A coherent section of a river that is discrete (does not overlap with another water 
body) and is significant rather than arbitrarily designated.  
Stream: Flowing body of water in a natural surface channel.  
Surface water: Water which flows over, or lies o n, the ground surface.  
Note: Indicator 6.3.2 does not include the monitoring of water quality in wetlands under monitoring level 
1. 
Target value :  A value (or range) for any given water quality parameter that indicates the threshold for a 
designated water  quality, such as good water quality rather than acceptable water quality.  
Toxic substance : Chemical substance which can disturb the physiological functions of humans, animals 
and plants.  
Transboundary waters: Surface or ground waters which mark, cross or are located on boundaries 
between two or more States; wherever transboundary waters flow directly into the sea, these 
transboundary waters end at a straight line across their respective mouths between points on the low -
water line of the banks (UNE CE, 1992).  
 
Water quality index: The measured water quality results for all parameters combined into a numeric 
value for each monitoring location. These scores are then aggregated over the time of the assessment 
period. The index score can range between ze ro (worst) to 100 (best).  
 
