Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Indicator 5.6.2 seeks to measure the extent to which countries have 
national laws and regulations t hat guarantee full and equal access to women and men aged 15 years and 
older to sexual and reproductive health care, information , and education.   
 
The indicator is a percentage (%) scale of 0 to 100 (national laws and regulations exist to guarantee full 
and equal access), indicating a country’s status and progress in the existence of such National laws and 
regulations. Indicator 5.6.2 measures only t he existence of laws and regulations; it does not measure 
their implementation.   
 
  
Laws: laws and statutes are official rules of conduct or action prescribed, or formally recognized as 
binding, or enforced by a controlling authority that governs the behavior of actors (including people, 
corporations, associations, government agencies).  They are adopted or ratified by the legislative branch 
of government and may  be formally recognized in the Constitution or interpreted by courts. Laws 
governing se xual and reproductive health are not necessarily contained in one law.  
 
Regulations: are executive, ministerial , or other administrative orders or decrees. At the municipal level, 
regulations are sometimes called ordinances. Regulations and ordinances iss ued by governmental entities 
have the force of law, although circumscribed by the level of the issuing authority.  Under this 
methodology, only regulations with  the national -level application are considered.  
   
Restrictions: many laws and regulations conta in restrictions in the scope of their applicability. Such 
restrictions, which include, though are not limited to, those by age, sex, marital status, and requirement 
for third party authorization, represent barriers to full and equal access to sexual and re productive health 
care, information,  and education.   
 
Plural legal systems: are defined as legal systems in which multiple sources of law co -exist. Such legal 
systems have typically developed over a period  because of  colonial inheritance, religion , and ot her socio -
cultural factors. Examples of sources of law that might co -exist under a plural legal system include  English 
common law, French civil or other law, statutory law, and customary and religious law. The co -existence 
of multiple sources of law can cr eate fundamental contradictions in the legal system, which result in 
barriers to full and equal access to sexual and reproductive health care, information , and education.   
 
“Guarantee” (access): for this methodology, “guarantee” is understood as a law or regulation that 
assures a particular outcome or condition. The methodology recognizes that laws can only guarantee “in Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
principle”; for the outcomes to be fully realized in practice, additional steps, including policy and 
budgetary measures will need to be in place.  
 
