Indicator 5.5.1(b) measures the proportion of positions held by women in local government.  
It is expressed as a percentage of elected positions held by women in legislative/ deliberative bodies of 
local government.   
 
  Last updated: 2024 -07-29 
   
 Local governmen t is a result of decentralization, a process of transferring political, fiscal, and 
administrative powers from the central government to sub -national units of government  to regulate 
and/or run certain government functions or public services , on their own , in the administrative -territorial 
areas of a country .  
 
The definition of local government follows the 2008 System of National Accounts (SNA) distinction between 
central, state, and local government (para 4.129). Local government consists of local government units, 
defined in the SNA as “institutional units who se fiscal, legislative and executive authority extends over the 
smallest geographical areas distinguished for administrative and political purposes” (para 4.145). What 
constitutes the local government of a given country is defined by that country’s national legal framework, 
including national constitutions and local government acts or equivalent legislation.  
 
Each local government unit typically includes a legislative/ deliberative body and an executive body. 
Legislative/ deliberative bodie s, such as councils or assemblies, are formal entities with a prescribed 
number of members as per national or state legislation. They are usually elected by universal suffrage and 
have decision -making power, including the ability to issue by -laws, on a ran ge of local aspects of public 
affairs.  
 
Executive bodies, consisting of an executive committee or a mayor, may be elected  or appointed .  They 
prepare and execute decisions made by the legislative/ deliberative body.  
 
Elected positions  are the most common  manner of selection of local government members. They are 
selected in local elections, based on a system of choosing political office holders in which the voters cast 
ballots for the person, persons,  or political party that they desire to see elected. The  category of elected 
positions includes both elected persons who competed on openly contested seats and persons selected 
during the electoral processes on reserved seats or through a candidate quota.  
 
By comparison, members selected for appointed positions  (the least common manner of selection of local 
government members) are nominated, typically by government officials from higher -ranking tiers of 
government. Appointed members of local government are more frequent among the leadership positions, 
such as th e heads of the executive body, representatives of specific groups (e.g., women, disadvantaged 
groups, youth); and temporary committees/delegations/caretakers appointed by government officials 
when a council has been dissolved.  
 
