This indicator measures the percentage of ever -partnered women and girls aged 15 years and older who 
have  been subjected to  physical, sexual , or psychological violence by a current or former intimate 
partner, in the previous 12 months. The d efinition of violence against women and girls (VAWG) and the 
forms of violence specified under this indicator are presented in the next section (Concepts).  
NOTE : References  to “violence against women” (VAW)  throughout  also include adolescent girls (15 -19 
years old).  
      
  
According to the UN Declar ation on the Elimination of Violence against Women (1993), violence against 
women is “Any act of gender -based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual , or 
psychological harm or suffering to women, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary 
deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life. Violence against women shall be 
understood to encompass, but not be limited to, the following: Physical, sexual and psychological 
violence occurring in the family […]”. See here for the full definition: 
https://undocs.org/en/A/RES/48/104        
Intimate partner violence  (IPV)  against wom en includes any abuse perpetrated by a current or former 
partner within the context of marriage, cohabitation , or any other formal or informal union.  
The different forms of violence  included in the indicator are defined as follows:  
1. Physical violence co nsists of acts aimed at physically hurting the victim and include, but are not limited 
to      acts like pushing, grabbing, twisting the arm, pulling hair, slapping, kicking, biting , hitting with a fist 
or object, trying to strangle or suffocate, burning  or scalding on purpose, or threatening or attacking with 
some sort of weapon, gun or knife.  
2. Sexual violence is defined as any sort of harmful or unwanted sexual behavio ur that is imposed on 
someone, whether by use of  physical  force, intimidation , or coercion. It includes acts of abusive sexual 
contact, forced sexual acts, attempted or completed sexual acts  (intercourse)  without consent  (rape or 
attempted rape) , non -contact acts such as being forced to watch or participate in pornography, etc. In 
intima te partner relationships, sexual violence is commonly  operationally defined  in surveys  as being 
physically forced to have sexual intercourse, having sexual intercourse out of fear for what the partner 
might do or through coercion, and/or being forced to do something sexual that the woman considers 
humiliating or degrading.  
3. Psychological violence consists of any act that induce s fear or emotional distress. It includes a range of 
behavio urs that encompass acts of emotional abuse such as being frequently humiliated in public, 
intimidated or having things you care for destroyed, etc. These often coexist with acts of physical and Last updated: 202 2-03-31 
sexual violence by intimate partners. In addition, surveys often measure controlling behaviours (e.g., 
being kept from seeing family or friends, or from seeking health care without permission).  These are also 
considered acts of psychological abuse , although usually measured separately.      .      
For a more detailed definition of physical, sexual , and psychological viole nce against women , see 
Guidelines for Producing Statistics on Violence against Women - Statistical Surveys  (UN, 2014 ), and the 
International Classification of Crime for Statistical Purposes  ICCS ( UNODC, 2015 ), and Violence against 
Women Prevalence Estimates , 2018. Global, regional , and national prevalence estimates for intimate 
partner violence against women and global and regional prevalence estimates for non -partner sexual 
violence against women  (WHO, 2021).        
 
