Definitions:  
Indicator 5.1.1 measures Government efforts to put in place legal frameworks that promote, enforce and 
monitor gender equality.    
 
The indicator is based on an assessment of legal frameworks that promote, enforce and monitor gender 
equality. The assessment is carried out by national counterparts, including National Statistical Offices 
(NSOs) and/or National Women’s Machinery (NWMs), an d legal practitioners/researchers on gender 
equality, using a questionnaire comprising 4 2 yes/no questions under four areas of law: (i) overarching 
legal frameworks and public life; (ii) violence against women; (iii) employment and economic benefits; 
and ( iv) marriage and family1. The areas of law and questions are drawn from the international legal and 
policy framework on gender equality, in particular the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of 
Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), which has 189 States parties, and the Beijing Platform for 
Action.  As such, no new internationally agreed standard on equality and non -discrimination on the basis 
of sex was needed. The primary sources of information relevant for indicator 5.1.1 are legislation and 
policy/action plans.  
 
The 4 2 questions in the questionnaire are:  
 
Area 1: Overarching legal frameworks and public life  
Promote  
1. If customary law is a valid source of law under the constitution, is it invalid if it violates 
constitutional provisions on equality or non-discrimination ?  
2. If personal law is a valid source of law under the constitution, is it invalid if it violates 
constitutional provisions on equality or non-discrimination ?  
3. Is there a discrimination law that prohibits both direct and indirect discri mination against 
women?  
4. Do women and men enjoy equal rights and access to hold public and political office (legislature, 
executive, judiciary)?  
5. Are there quotas for women (reserved seats) in,  or quotas for women in candidate lists for, 
national parliamen t? 
6. Do women and men have equal rights to confer citizenship to their spouses and their children?  
 
Enforce and monitor    
7. Does the law establish a specialized independent body tasked with receiving complaints of 
discrimination based on gender (e.g., nationa l human rights institution, women’s commission, 
ombudsperson)?  
 
1 The areas of law were agreed at the expert workshop, held on 14 and 15 June 2016, to discuss the 
methodological development of SDG indicator 5.1.1.  
 Last updated:  2023-12-15 
8. Is legal aid mandated in criminal matters?  
9. Is legal aid mandated in civil/family matters?  
10. Does a woman’s testimony carry the same evidentiary weight in court as a man’s?  
11. Are there laws that explicitly require the production and/or dissemination of gender statistics?  
12. Are there sanctions for noncompliance with mandated candidate list quotas, or incentives for 
political parties to field women candidates in national parliamentary elections?   
 
Area 2: Violence against women  
Promote  
13. Is there legislation specifically addressing domestic violence?  
14. Have provisions exempting perpetrators from facing char ges for rape if the perpetrator marries 
the victim after the crime been removed, or never existed in legislation?  
15. Have provisions reducing penalties in cases of so -called honor crimes  been removed, or never 
existed in legislation?  
16. Are laws on rape based o n lack of consent, without requiring proof of physical force or 
penetration?  
17. Does legislation explicitly criminalize marital rape or does legislation entitle a woman to file a 
complaint about rape against her husband or partner?  
18. Is there legislation that specifically addresses sexual harassment?   
 
Enforce and monitor  
19. Are there budgetary commitments provided for by government entities for the implementation 
of legislation addressing violence against women by creating an obligation on the government to 
prov ide a budget or allocation of funding for the implementation of relevant programs  or 
activities?  
20. Are there budgetary commitments provided by government entities for the implementation of 
legislation addressing violence against women by allocating a specif ic budget, funding , and/or 
incentives to support non -governmental organizations for activities to address violence against 
women?  
21. Is there a national action plan or policy to address violence against women that is overseen by a 
national mechanism with the  mandate to monitor and review implementation?  
 
Area 3: Employment and economic benefits  
Promote  
22. Does the law mandate non-discrimination  based on  gender in employment?  
23. Does the law mandate equal remuneration for work of equal value?  
24. Can women work in job s deemed hazardous, arduous , or morally inappropriate in the same way 
as men?  
25. Are women able to work in the same industries as men?  
26. Are women able to perform the same tasks as men?  
27. Does the law allow women to work the same night hours as men?  
28. Does the law provide for maternity or parental leave available to mothers in accordance with the 
ILO standards?  
29. Does the law provide for paid paternity or parental leave available to fathers o r partners?  
 
Enforce and monitor  
30. Is there a public entity that can receive complaints on gender discrimination in employment?  Last updated:  2023-12-15 
31. Is childcare publicly provided or subsidized?  
 
Area 4: Marriage and family  
Promote  
32. Is the minimum age of marriage at least 18, with no legal exceptions, for both women and men?  
33. Do women and men have equal rights to enter marriage (i.e., consent) and initiate divorce?  
34. Do women and men have equal rights to be the legal guardian of their children during and after 
marriage?  
35. Do women  and men have equal rights to be recognized as head of household or head of the 
family?  
36. Do women and men have equal rights to choose where to live?  
37. Do women and men have equal rights to choose a profession?  
38. Do women and men have equal rights to obtain an identity card?  
39. Do women and men have equal rights to apply for passports?  
40. Do women and men have equal rights to own, access , and control marital property including 
upon divorce?  
 
Enforce and monitor  
41. Is marriage under the legal age void or voidable?  
42. Are t here dedicated and specialized family courts?  
 
  
Article 1 of CEDAW provides a comprehensive definition of discrimination against women covering direct 
and indirect discrimination and article 2 sets out general obligations for States, in particular on required 
legal frameworks, to eliminate discrimination against women.  Article 1 of CEDAW states: “… the term 
"discrimination against women" shall mean any distinction, exclusion or restriction made on the basis of 
sex which has the effect or  purpose of impairing or nullifying the recognition, enjoyment or exercise by 
women, irrespective of their marital status, on a basis of equality of men and women, of human rights 
and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural, civil  or any other field”.  Article 2 of 
CEDAW states: States Parties condemn discrimination against women in all its forms, agree to pursue by 
all appropriate means and without delay a policy of eliminating discrimination against women and, to this 
end, underta ke: (a) To embody the principle of the equality of men and women in their national 
constitutions or other appropriate legislation if not yet incorporated therein and to ensure, through law 
and other appropriate means, the practical realization of this prin ciple; (b) To adopt appropriate 
legislative and other measures, including sanctions where appropriate, prohibiting all discrimination 
against women; (c) To establish legal protection of the rights of women on an equal basis with men and 
to ensure through c ompetent national tribunals and other public institutions the effective protection of 
women against any act of discrimination; (d) To refrain from engaging in any act or practice of 
discrimination against women and to ensure that public authorities and ins titutions shall act in 
conformity with this obligation; (e) To take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination against 
women by any person, organization or enterprise; (f) To take all appropriate measures, including 
legislation, to modify or abol ish existing laws, regulations, customs and practices which constitute 
discrimination against women; (g) To repeal all national penal provisions which constitute discrimination 
against women ”.  
 
The term “legal frameworks” is defined broadly to encompass l aws, mechanisms , and policies/plans to 
‘promote, enforce and monitor’ gender equality.   Last updated:  2023-12-15 
 
Legal frameworks that “promote” are those that establish women’s equal rights with men and enshrine 
non-discrimination based on  sex. Legal frameworks that “enforce an d monitor’ are directed to the 
realization of equality and non -discrimination and implementation of laws, such as policies/plans, the 
establishment of enforcement and monitoring mechanisms, and allocation of financial resources.  
 
