Definitions:  
Food waste  is food and associated inedible parts removed from the human food supply chain in the 
following sectors: retail and other distribution of food; food service (restaurants, schools, hospitals, other 
canteens, etc.); and households. “Removed from the human food supply chain” means one of the following 
end destinations: landfill, controlled combustion, sewer, litter/discard s/ refuse, co/anaerobic digestion, 
compost/aerobic digestion or land application.  
 
The indicator aims to measure the total amount of food that is wasted in tonnes. It complements SDG 
12.3.1(a) on Food Loss (which is under the custodianship of FAO). Both in dicators look to divide the food 
value chain and measure the efficiency of the food system.  
 Last updat ed: 2024 -07-29 
The food waste indicator is calculated at two levels, which are presented in Table 1 below.  
 
Table 1: Two levels of  indicator 12.3.1(b) on food waste  
Name  Measurement  
Level I indicator:   
Food waste estimates for each sector  
 Existing data and extrapolation to other countries  
 
Level II indicator:  
Food waste generation tracked at a 
national level  
 Direct measurement of food waste in retail, food service 
and households  at the national level . Sufficiently accurate 
for tracking.  
 
 
  
Food: Any substance  — whether processed, semi -processed, or raw  — that is intended for human 
consumption. “Food” includes drink and any substance that has been used in the manufacture, 
preparation, or treatment of food. “Food” also includes material that has spoiled and is therefore no longer 
fit for human consumption. It does not include cosmetics, tobacco, or substances used only as drugs. It 
does not incl ude processing agents used along the food supply chain, for example, water to clean or cook 
raw materials in factories or at home.  
 
Inedible (or non -edible) parts: Components associated with a food that, in a particular food supply chain, 
are not intended to be consumed by humans. Examples of inedible parts associated with food could include 
bones, rinds, and pits/stones. “Inedible parts” do not include packaging. What is considered inedible varies 
among users (e.g., chicken feet are consumed in some food s upply chains but not others), changes over 
time, and is influenced by a range of variables including culture, socio -economic factors, availability, price, 
technological advances, international trade, and geography.   
 
Municipal Solid Waste (MSW)  includes wa ste originating from households, commerce , and trade, small 
businesses, office buildings and institutions (schools, hospitals, government buildings). It also includes 
bulky waste (e.g., old furniture, mattresses) and waste from selected municipal services,  e.g., waste from 
park and garden maintenance, waste from street cleaning services (street sweepings, the content of litter 
containers, market cleansing waste), if managed as waste. Further information on municipal solid waste is 
defined in the SDG indicat or methodology for 11.6.1.  
 
