Definitions:  
The indicator includes hazardous generated, hazardous waste generated by type (including e -waste as a 
sub-indicator) and the proportion of hazardous waste treated.  
 
Hazardous waste is waste with properties capable of having a harmful effect on human healt h or the 
environment and is regulated and controlled by law.  
 
Hazardous waste generated :  refers to the quantity of hazardous waste generated within the country 
during the reported year, prior to any activity such as collection, preparation for reuse, trea tment, recovery, 
including recycling, or export, no matter the destination of this waste.  
 
Hazardous waste generated by type, including e -waste : A breakdown of hazardous waste generated by 
key type of waste, including e -waste . 
 
Municipal waste : Municipal solid waste (MSW) includes waste originating from households, commerce 
and trade, small businesses, office buildings and institutions (schools, hospitals, government buildings). It 
also includes bulky waste (e.g., old furniture, mattresses) and waste from s elected municipal services, e.g. 
waste from parks and gardens maintenance, waste from street cleaning services (street sweepings, litter 
containers content, market cleansing waste), if managed as waste . 
 
E-waste:  Electronic waste, or e -waste, refers to all  items of electrical and electronic equipment (EEE) and 
its parts that have been discarded by its owner as waste without the intent of re -use. 
 
Hazardous waste treated : Hazardous waste treated during reporting year , per each type of treatment 
(recycling, i ncineration with/without energy recovery, landfilling or other), including exports and 
excluding imports . 
 
  
Hazardous waste  is waste with properties that make it hazardous or capable of having a harmful effect on 
human health or the environment. Hazardous waste is generated from many sources, ranging from 
industrial manufacturing process waste to domestic items such as batteri es and may come in many forms, 
including liquids, solids, gases and sludge. They can be discarded as commercial products, like cleaning Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
fluids or pesticides or the by -products of manufacturing processes , from Basel Convention (Article 1, 
paragraph 1(a)).  Waste listed in Annex VIII of the Basel Convention is presumed to be hazardous, while 
waste listed in Annex IX is presumed not to be hazardous. For the purpose of this indicator, due to 
comparability reasons, additional waste considered hazardous as per nat ional definitions, as provided by 
the Basel Convention under Article 1, paragraph 1(b ), are excluded.  
 
Hazardous waste generated  refers to the quantity of hazardous waste (as per the definition above) that is 
generated within the country during the reporte d year, prior to any activity such as collection, preparation 
for reuse, treatment, recovery, including recycling, or export, no matter the destination of this waste. For 
waste that are not covered under the above definition, but are defined as, or are con sidered to be 
hazardous waste by national definitions and are included in the “hazardous waste generated” amount, a 
specific note should be added specifying the additional types/streams of hazardous waste included as well 
as their quantities.  
  
“Waste trea ted” and “ type of treatment ” are not defined in the Basel Convention. In this context, 
“treatment” will include all operations included under Annex IV of the Basel Convention, namely 
“Disposal” operations D1 to D15 and “Recovery” operations R1 to R13. This  is also linked to the 
definitions of “Recycling, Incineration, Incineration with energy recovery, Landfilling and other types of 
treatment or disposal” . 
 
A full methodology for this indicator is available in the document entitled, “ Global Chemicals and Waste 
Indicator Review Docum ent” (UNEP,  2021 ). 
 
