Definitions:  
The indicator measures the number of countries implementing Sustainable Public Procurement  (SPP)  
policies and action plans, by assessing  the degree of implementation  through a n index. To produce 
the index, countries self -assess the following main elements:  
- Public procurement legal and regulatory fra mework  
- Practical support delivered for the implementation of SPP  Last updated:  2024 -01-31 
- SPP priority products1 and corresponding sustainable procurement  criteria  
- Existence of SPP monitoring system  
- Measurement of actual SPP outcome  
More details are provided in the attached  SPP Index Methodology  (revised February 2021) . 
 
  
Sustainable Public Procurement (SPP): Sustainable Public Procurement is a “A process whereby public 
organizations meet their needs for goods, services, works and utilities in a way that achieves value for 
money on a whole life cycle basis in terms of generating benefits not only to the organisation, but a lso to 
society and the economy, whilst significantly reducing negative impacts on the environment” (Definition 
updated by the Multistakeholder Advisory Committee of the 10YFP SPP Programme) . 
 
Sustainable Public Procurement Action Plan:  A Sustainable Public  Procurement (SPP) action plan is a policy 
document articulating the priorities and actions a public authority will adopt to support the 
implementation of SPP.  
 
Plans usually/should address the economic, environmental and social dimensions of SPP, and rec ognise the 
potential for SPP to realise SDGs”. In some cases a country’s action plan may focus on a single aspect of 
sustainability, being either environmental (e.g. “Green” public procurement action plan), social (e.g. 
reference to human rights, fair trad e, focus on employment of minorities, etc.), or economic (e.g. 
promotion of SMEs’ participation in tenders, focus on employment of minorities, etc.).  
 
Best Value for Money:  can be defined as the “optimum combination of whole -life cost and quality to meet 
the end -user's requirements".  
 
Life-cycle costing (LCC):   is used to evaluate costs which may not be reflected in the purchase price of a 
product, work or service, and which will be incurred during their lifetime.  
 
MEAT:  The Most Economically Advantageous Tender criterion enables the contracting authority to take 
account of criteria that reflect qualitative, technical and sustainable aspects of the tender submission as 
well as price when reaching an award decision.  
 
More reference about the above and their contextualization can be found in the attached SPP Index 
Methodology . 
 
