Definitions:  
The indicator refers to the number  of Parties (= countries that have  ratified, accepted, approved , or 
accessed ), to the following M ultilateral Environmental Agreements  (MEAs):  
 
1. The Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their 
Disposal  (Basel Convention);  
2. The Rotterdam Convention on the prior informed consent procedure for certain  hazardous 
chemicals and pesticides in international trade  (Rotterdam Convention);  
3. The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants  (Stockholm Convention);  
4. The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer  (Montreal Protocol);  
5. Minam ata Convention on Mercury (Minamata Convention),  
 
which have submitted the information to the Secretariat of each M EA, as required by each of the 
agreements.  
 
The information required is as follows:  
 
Basel Convention1: 
1. Designation of the Focal Point and one or more Competent Authorities;  
2. Submission of the annual national reports.  
 
Rotterdam Convention:  
1. Designation of the Designated National Authority(ies) and Official contact points;  
2. Submission of the import responses.  
 
Stockholm Convention:  
1. Designation  of the Stockholm Convention official contact points and national focal points;  
2. Submission of the national implementation plans;  
3. Submission of the revised national implementation plan addressing amendments;  
4. Submission of the national reports.  
 
Montreal Protocol:  
1. Compliance with annual reporting requirements for production and consumption of controlled 
substances under Article 7 of the Montreal Protocol;  
2. Submission of information on Licensing systems under (Article 4B of) the Montreal Protocol ; 
3. For each party, a percentage value is assigned to indicate how much of the required information 
has been submitted.  
 
Minamata Convention:  
 
1  The parameters presented below are based on the obligations of the Parties to transmit information to the Secretariat, 
whatever its national circumstances.  Other information that only needs to be communicated to the Secretariat based on 
national circumst ances, such  as a possible national definitions of hazardous wastes, possible article 11 agreements under 
the Basel Convention, or a possible exemptions under the Stockholm Convention would not be included, either because the 
Secretariat is not in a positi on to assess whether the obligation to transmit information has materialized itself, or because 
Parties have the right not to make use of a right.  Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
1. Designation of a national focal point for exchange of information under Article 17 of the 
Convention;  
2. Submission of national reports as required under Article 21 of the Minamata Convention.  
 
  
Parties to the Basel Convention  have an obligation to present an annual national report as provided for by 
Article 13, paragraph 3 in order to enable monitoring of the implementation of the Basel Convention by its 
Parties.  The reports are to contain, inter alia, information regarding tr ansboundary movements of 
hazardous wastes or other wastes in which Parties have been involved, including t he amount of hazardous 
wastes and other wastes exported, their category, characteristics, destination, any transit country and 
disposal method as stat ed on the response to notification, t he amount of hazardous wastes and other 
wastes imported in their category, characteristics, origin, and disposal methods;  information on accidents 
occurring during the transboundary movement and disposal of hazardous wa stes and other wastes and on 
the measures undertaken to deal with them;  information on disposal options operated within the area of 
their national jurisdiction; and other information as per reporting format.  
 
Import responses under the Rotterdam Convention  are the decisions provided by Parties indicating 
whether or not they will consent to import the chemicals listed in Annex III of the Convention and subject 
to the prior informed consent ( PIC) procedure.  Article 10 of the Rotterdam Convention set s out the 
obligations of Parties with respect to the future import o f chemicals listed in Annex III . 
 
Under the Stockholm Convention , a Party has an obligation to  report on the measures it has taken to 
implement the provisions of the Convention and on the effectiveness of such measures in meeting the 
objectives of the Convention.  The national reports include statistical data on the  total quantities of 
production, import and export of each of the chemicals listed in Annex A and Annex B or a reasonable 
estima te of such data; and  to the extent practicable, a list of the States from which it has imported each 
substance and the States to which it has exported each substance.  A National Implementation Plan under 
the Stockholm Convention is a plan explaining how a Party  is going to implement the obligations under the 
Convention and make efforts to put such a plan into operation ( Article 7 ). Changes in the obligations arising 
from amendments to the Convention or its annexes , for example when a new chemical is listed into the 
annexes of the Convention , will require that a Party is to  review and update its implementation plan, and 
transmit the updated plan to the Conference of the Parties (COP) within two years of the entry in to force 
of the amendment for it, consistent with paragraph 1 (b) of the Convention (according to paragraph 7 of 
the annex to decision SC -1/12).   
 
The Minamata Convention  requires, under its article 17, paragraph 4, that each Party designates a National 
Focal Point for the exchange of information under it, including with regard to the consent of importing 
Parties under Article 3.  Pursuant to Article 21 of the Minamata Conv ention, each party to the Convention 
shall report to the COP  on the measures it has taken to implement the provisions of the Convention, on 
the effectiveness of such measures and on possible challenges in meeting the objectives of the Convention. 
In decisi on MC -1/8 on the Timing and format of reporting by the Parties, the COP  at its first meeting (2017) 
agreed on the full format of reporting and decided that each Party shall report every four years using the 
full format and report every two years on four qu estions marked by an asterisk in the full format. The COP 
further decided on the following timing with regards to the short and full reporting: 31 December 2019 as 
the deadline for the first  short  national  report; 31 December 2021 as the deadline for the first full national 
report.   
 Last updated:  2024 -07-29 
The Montreal Protocol  requires, under its Article 7, that each Party provides to the Secretariat for each 
controlled substance statistical data on its annual production, amounts used for feedstocks, amounts 
destroyed by technologies approved by the Parties, imports from and ex ports to Parties and non -Parties 
respectively and amount of the controlled substance listed in Annex E used for quarantine and pre -
shipment applications , for the year during which provisions concerning th ose substances entered into force 
for that Party and for each year thereafter. Each Party shall also provide to the Secretariat statistical data 
on its annual emissions of trifluoromethane ( HFC-23) per facility . The calculation of control levels is 
provided i n Article 3 of the Protocol. This reporting enable s monitoring of the implementation  of the 
Protocol, and compliance with the control measures under the protocol.  Additionally, under Article 4B, 
each party is required to establish and implement a system fo r licensing the import and export of new, 
used, recycled and reclaimed controlled substances . Each Party is required , within three months of the 
date of introducing its licensing system, to report to the Secretariat on the establishment and operation of 
that system.   
 
