Definitions:
The Redistributive Impact of Fiscal Policy indicator is defined as the Gini Index of pre-fiscal per capita (or equivalized) income less the Gini Index of post-fiscal per capita (or equivalized) income.  These terms are elaborated below and can be calculated with some different variations.

-Gini Index: a commonly used measure of inequality capturing the statistical dispersion in the distribution of income over a population (Gini, 1936).  A Gini Index of zero expresses perfect equality: that is, every individual in the population has the same income.  A Gini Index of 100 expresses maximum inequality: that is, all income accrues to a single individual, and all other individuals have zero income.
Household income: this can be calculated: (i) in per capita terms (household income divided by the number of household members); or (ii) in equivalized terms (household income divided by the square root of the number of household members).  If a different definition is used, it should be noted in the reporting document.
-Pre-fiscal income: the cumulative income accruing to an individual (or a household) from market and private sources only.  The Redistributive Impact of Fiscal Policy indicator can be estimated with reference to two different pre-fiscal income concepts depending on assumptions regarding the nature of the public, contributory old-age pension system (please also see the figure below, adapted from Lustig (2018) and in Lustig chapter 1, Section 2.2, pp. 20-29):  
Pre-fiscal income 1 -  under the “pensions as deferred income” scenario: When incomes from public contributory old-age pension-system are counted as deferred market income and old-age pension-system contributions are counted as savings from current income (that is, the old-age pension system is treated as the equivalent of a mandatory savings program), pre-fiscal income is defined as an individual’s earned and unearned incomes from market and other private sources: wages, interest and dividend income; imputed income from owner-occupied housing and from consumption of own production; remittances; private transfers; old-age pension income from the public contributory pension system; and, less any contributions to the public old-age contributory pension system.  In this case, the pre-fiscal income concept is called Market income plus pensions.

Pre-fiscal income 2 - under the “pensions as government transfer” scenario:  When incomes from current pension system are counted as a government transfer and old age pension system contributions are counted as a tax on current income, pre-fiscal income is defined as: wages, interest and dividend income; imputed income from owner-occupied housing and from consumption of own production; remittances; and private transfers only. In this case, the pre-fiscal income concept is called Market income.

When pensions are treated as pure government transfers, the redistributive effect of pensions may be exaggerated as retirees with zero or near zero pre-fiscal incomes will receive pension income that is – at least in part – income deferred when the individual was working. It is important to note that deferral of own income from one’s working years to one’s retired self is possible regardless of whether the pension system is actuarially fair and in both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. Treating the public contributory pension system income as pure deferred income, however, does not allow us to capture any portion of the redistributive effect of pensions which may in effect exist. Therefore, we view the pensions as government transfer and pensions as deferred income scenarios as imperfect upper and lower bound estimates (respectively) of the true redistributive effect of contributory pensions. Rather than generating estimates of the redistributive effect of fiscal policy under specific assumptions about public contributory pension system income, the OECD instead reports estimates of the redistributive effect for the population under 65 years of age (while treating contributions to the public contributory pension system as a tax).  This is most comparable to the “pensions as deferred income” scenario, although not exactly the same. 
-Post-fiscal income: The Redistributive Impact of Fiscal Policy indicator can be estimated with reference to two different post-fiscal income concepts, Disposable Income and Consumable Income.  The most comprehensive concept is that of Consumable Income, which incorporates not only the impact of direct taxes and transfers but also of indirect taxes and price subsidies. 
Disposable and Consumable Income are equal in value under the “pensions as deferred income” and “pensions as government transfer” scenarios.  However, they are derived from pre-fiscal income 1 and pre-fiscal income 2 differently; please see the figure below, adapted from Lustig (2018):  
Post-fiscal incomes under the “pensions as deferred income” scenario: 

Post-fiscal Income A - Disposable Income: pre-fiscal income less direct taxes paid and less social insurance contributions made to the public fiscal authority plus direct cash transfers and the monetary value of benefits (measured at what governments spend) received by households in the form of near-cash transfers (e.g., food stamps, school breakfasts, school uniforms). 
Post-fiscal Income B - Consumable Income: pre-fiscal income less direct and indirect taxes paid and less social insurance contributions other than for old-age pensions made to the public fiscal authority plus direct cash transfers and the monetary value of benefits (measured at what governments spend) received by households in the form of near-cash transfers (e.g., food stamps, school breakfasts, school and indirect price subsidies. 
Post-fiscal incomes under the “pensions as government transfer” scenario: 

Post-fiscal Income A - Disposable Income: pre-fiscal income less direct taxes paid and less social insurance contributions and less contributory old-age pension contributions made to the public fiscal authority plus direct cash transfers and the monetary value of benefits (measured at what governments spend) received by households in the form of near-cash transfers (e.g., food stamps, school breakfasts, school uniforms). 
Post-fiscal Income B - Consumable Income: pre-fiscal income less direct and indirect taxes paid and less social insurance contributions and less contributory old-age pension contributions made to the public fiscal authority plus direct cash transfers and the monetary value of benefits (measured at what governments spend) received by households in the form of near-cash transfers (e.g., food stamps, school breakfasts, school uniforms), and plus indirect price subsidies. 


CEQ Income Concepts 

Source: adapted from Lustig (2018).
